We will start with our first talk and we
really wanted to kick off the day with
everybody being grounded in knowledge.
As you all know, I feel very strongly
that knowledge is our power. But if we
don't understand what the people on this
stage are telling you, one, we're
wasting your time. And you being here
away from your family and getting
caregivers support is honestly a
privilege for us. We do not want to
waste one minute of your time being
here. So, we need to ground you in
knowledge, which means that we're going
to talk about different things this
morning. What does in vitro mean? What
does that mean? And why is it important
to develop drugs for our children? We're
going to follow that by what does invivo
mean? So in vitro in a dish in vivo
inside a body and then we're going to
talk about the UB3 gene. What is the
function of UB3A?
I can tell you what it doesn't do. Meet
my daughter. But what we're going to
learn is what it is supposed to do. And
that's very important for us to
understand if we give it back,
what symptoms we can address potentially
with that. And then we're going to talk
about what is gene therapy. Gene therapy
is a word we use all the time, but I
guarantee you 90% of you don't actually
know what it is. So, we're going to talk
about what it is. Really get a good
understanding to make very important
decisions about your child in the
future. You need to understand what
we're talking about. So, with that,
let's kick off the morning with Dr.
Michael Boland. Dr. Dr. Michael Bolan
comes to us from the University of
Pennsylvania Pearland School of
Medicine. I'm going to let him introduce
his incredible academic accolades
because he's one of the smartest people
that I know. He's a neuroscientist who's
incredibly brilliant. But the most
important title is he's a dad. And I'm
going to let you him tell his story.
Michael,
>> thank you.
Thank you, Allison. Uh, it's it's an
incredible honor to be here and I'd like
to thank the organizers and uh fast for
for putting this on and for everyone
showing up to listen to this. So,
get my slides up.
There we go. So Allison, as Allison
alluded to, I'm the um strategic
director for the translational and
clinical research at the center for
epilepsy and neurodedevelopmental
disorders, which spans both pen medicine
as well as children's hospital of
Philadelphia.
But before that, I was a faculty member
at the University of um at the Columbia
University Medical Center where I was
studying pediatric epilepsies. My
background is in uh developmental
neurobiology, pediatric epilepsy,
genetics, transcrytoics. Um, and I was
using human pur potent stem cell models,
which we'll get into in a minute, as
well as genetic mouse models to study a
number of monogenic
single gene disorders that cause
pediatric epilepsy and autism spectrum
disorder. Uh, worked on a number of
different developmental and epileptic
encphylopathies.
And it was actually during this time
that my son Lucas was born with,
strangely enough, a developmental and
epileptic and sephylopathy. He was
having seizures the day after he was
born. And I had to convince the
neonatlogists on call at the hospital
that he was having seizures. And
finally, they agreed with me. And at on
the second day of life, he was admitted
to the NICU.
Every tests um came back negative. now
you know MRI uh uh spinal tap for to
check for u viral infection in the in
the um central nervous system.
Everything came back except for abnormal
EEG. And then a couple weeks later we
got the diagnosis that he had a frame
shift in a gene called STXBP1.
Um we'll talk a little bit more about
STX BPP1. And I want to use this as kind
of a model system for as I walk you
through how we can develop or use in
vitro tools to develop disease models
that can help predict um pathogenic
phenotypes as well as response to
therapies. So I want to first walk you
through some nomenclature um common
nomenclature that I think will be useful
for you to hear throughout the day. Um
some genetics uh description of
non-neuronal cell lines and and and what
they're useful for. And then we'll go
into human induced pur potent stem
cells, genomic engineering, and a bunch
of different um methods to to study um
essentially neurons in a dish. And then
we'll I'll give you a real world
application revolved around um STX BP1
modeling in a dish and a gene targeted
therapy to correct some of the deficits
seen in in those cells.
So, I just want to give you a quick
reminder. Most of you probably don't
know what SDXBP1 is. Um, all of you know
what UB3A is, but SDXBP-1
is expressed in all neurons and it's
absolutely critical for how neurons
communicate.
Neurons communicate through
neurotransmission
mediated by synaptic vesicle release
that goes from one neuron to the next
neuron. in there by initiating the
action potential and um electrical
propagation and so STX BPP1 is critical
for release of those synaptic vesicles
uh exocytosis and neurotransmitter
release into the synaptic cleft. So it's
absolutely critical for communication in
the brain.
So as Allison said in the in the opening
there's a couple of different ways that
we can we can develop disease models.
One is in vitro and this is in a in a
most likely a cell line in a dish and we
can manipulate those cells in a number
of different ways. Uh and then there's
also in vivo and Rodney is going to talk
to you after this about um most likely
about um mouse models of different
diseases. he's he's really terrific at
characterizing behavior and whatnot of
of mouse models of of disease. Um, but
we're going to focus a little bit on in
vitro for the next 15 minutes or so. And
so in vitro means just in a dish. We can
take cells such as um cells treated with
a drug um Angelman syndrome, neurons,
what have you, and study DNA,
mRNA, the UBA
3A protein, that's actually that's the
structure of it down there at the
bottom. Uh that squiggly thing. Um there
was a Nobel Prize awarded last year for
Alphafold which is a an uh AI method to
predict protein structure which is going
to revolutionize drug discovery
and like I said there a number of things
that we can do with these cell models
and for instance drug screening treating
them with drugs different anti-sense
oligouonucleotides
um we can look at cellular morphology
through high content imaging and and um
and also look at metabolic profiling to
to see how the metabolism of neurons or
or cell types affected by disorder are
are changed and are different from
control cell lines.
So going way back to the basics, you
know that you have two sets of
chromosomes, one set from your mother,
one set from your father. Each one of
those gameamtes had 23 chromosomes and
when they combine to form the embryo you
now you have 46 chromosomes and that's
called diploid.
Another
technical term scientific term that
you'll probably hear is transfection.
This is moving DNA into a cell using a
nonviral means like a lipid nano
particle which you'll probably also hear
about today. And there's also
transduction and this is the process by
which viruses enter a cell to to deliver
a cargo such as mRNA or DNA.
So, some of the more common cell lines
that people use
are actually pretty terrible because if
you look at each one of these cell
lines, whether it's the human embryionic
kidney, the epithelial cancer, Hila,
um the retinal pigmented epithelium, or
the neuroblastoma cell line that I've
indicated here,
look at the number of chromosomes here.
They're highly annoyed. These are
essentially cancer in a dish. And so
these don't represent very good cell
models of disease, but they do have
their utility because they're very easy
to work with. They're easily
transfectable and you can use them in
really high throughput to screen tens of
thousands of drugs. This is one of the
first steps you would use a cell line
such as this to give you an indication
that for instance um if you're screening
an anti-sense oligouonucleotide or some
small molecule or even virally delivered
genes whether or not this is going to
have an effect in uh a real disease
model
but these like I said these aren't
typically used for disease modeling
because they're in incredibly artificial
In 2007, Shina Yamanaka published a
paper where they took adult fiber
blasts. So just a fiber blast um taken
from a skin punch biopsy grown out in
culture and they were able to revert
that cell type from a from an adult
person back into what resembled it human
embryionic stem cell. That's a stem
cell. It's a fleeting um sulfate very
early in in development. These
embryionic stem cells give rise to every
cell type in the body, the entire embryo
proper. He won the Nobel Prize for this
discovery in 2012. And this became um
the de facto way to start to generate
and look at purip potent stem cells
because you didn't have to destroy an
embryo to derive them. You could take
dermal fiberblasts or um monucleiated
cells from the blood and apply these
viruses that contain these reprogramming
factors and turn these back into what's
called a humaninduced pur potent stem
cell which is also able to give rise to
all cell types in an adult organism. And
you can take these cells and using small
molecules and other and other proteins
and whatnot that mimic um that that
mimic the developmental cascades that
give rise to different cell types and
germ layers.
You can generate a number of different
cell types muscle, heart, pancreas, you
what have you. We can also generate all
the cell types in the brain for instance
neurons or aststerytes. And uh these pur
potent stem cells these IPS cells were
proven to be biochemically
equivalent to embryionic stem cells when
a group that I was involved with at
Scripps Research uh were able to clone
mice using these cells. So demonstrating
that they they truly can give rise to
any uh cell type in the body because we
we cloned mice that were fertile and
could and and could breed and whatnot.
So there are a few different ways to
make these IPS cells. Um all involve
that that reprogramming using those
reprogramming factors. But there are
some different models that that we
should consider. So this is a trio or a
familial model where most of you have
had whole exom sequencing done. And when
they do that, if they're looking for a
denovo mutation, they take um they take
your genomic DNA, your spouse's genomic
DNA and your child's genomic DNA and
they sequence it and that's called a
trio. And then they use the information
there to to see what what's different
between your child and you uh for denovo
mutations. So in this case we've derived
IPS cells from a mother, a father and an
infant with a neurological disorder.
So the IPS cells derived from each of
these people
represent
essentially them in a dish. So the IPS
cells with the from the child with a
neurological disorder will differentiate
into neurons that harbor the genetic
defects and physiological defects
pertinent to that mutation.
Another
way to um model use these IPS cells is
uh isogenic model. And this just means
the same gene. Isogenic means the same
genome. And so the way to do this is you
take the uh you generate IPS cells from
an infant with a with a neurological
disorder or any disorder for that matter
and then you can use genomic engineering
such as crisper cast 9 to correct that
mutation.
And
now you have a corrected isogenic
control line that you can compare to the
to the mutant line. And the only
theoretically the only difference
between these two is the mutation that's
found in the in the proband.
Similarly, we can also take an
unaffected iPS cell line, say say an iPS
cell line generated from me or you and
use gen again use genomic engineering,
but this time to knock different
mutations into that cell line so that we
can study the effect of different
mutations of the same gene
on the same genetic background.
This is this is an incredibly powerful
technology because so much of what
makes us us are
driven by genetic modifiers that modify
disease phenotype which is why we have
heterogeneity in our patient populations
genetic modifiers.
So these IPS cells, as I alluded to, can
be differentiated into neurons using
small molecules and proteins that mimic
developmental um morphagen gradients in
different regions of the brain. Um, it
goes through a a a timed series of
events that go through neural rosettes
which mimic development of the
embryionic neural tube into neural stem
cells that give rise into progenitors
that differentiate into immature neurons
and then you get more mature neuronal
networks that in the dish can talk to
each other and we can measure their
activity.
Another way to do this is to forcibly
overexpress a a a gene called a
transcription factor that is involved in
cell fate decisions. In this case, it's
NGN2.
And when you express NGN2 in an IPS
cell, you skip all of this development
and you go basically right to the
neurons. So in a dish, this saves you
time and money.
And then the third way that is probably
the most commonly used now the NGN2 and
these organoids or spheroids. Um the
organoids or spheroids are are are
similar to um a naturally occurring
developmental model in in three
dimensions. Sometimes you'll hear this
referred to as mini brains and that's
definitely not the case. These these
don't have consciousness or anything
like that. Um, but it's a
three-dimensional representation of of
brain development in a dish and it it's
incredibly powerful. We can even derive
organoids from different regions of the
brain. For instance, this CO is a
cortical organoid. So the dorsal
forbrain versus the mgo which is the
medial gangleionic eminence which is a
region in in the um in the center of the
brain where certain neurons called
gabberurgic interneurons or inhibitory
neurons come from. And that's a huge
interplay in the brain in brain
development.
So when thinking about which type of
model you want to develop for a given
disorder, you need to think about the
biology of the disorder of the gene that
you're studying and then you go for an
appropriately
um an appropriate model based on what
you want to get out of that. Um
organoids are are tricky. they they
generally take about four months to get
good neuronal activity. Um you can you
can get similar activity from NGN2
cultures in in less time. Um it's it's
just the each one has pros and cons and
the scientist will will decide which
which is best for their model. But let's
talk about cortical organoids.
You can make hundreds if not thousands
of these in a couple of hours.
And they're tiny. They look like tiny
little balls of cells the next day. And
then they just grow over time into about
a little bit smaller than the size of a
pee um after four or five months. And
when the brain is developing
during very early embryionic
development, it's built in an inside out
fashion where these re very early radial
ga cells divide into these intermediate
progenitors that then divide into a
different type of cell called an outer
radial ga that extends this this really
long armor process all the way up to the
top of the developing brain. And the
immature neurons that that divide out
from these outer radia cells crawl up
these processes to their specific
genetically determined, temporally and
spatially determined place in the brain
and newborn neurons stop, other ones
crawl past them, stop and then it's so
on and built like that. And we can use
different uh markers of cell types to
track which of these track these cell
types. For instance, the deep layer
neurons you see have a gene called TBR1
expressed or CTIP 2. Whereas the
superficial or top layer neurons have
BRN2 or SAT BP2. And during organoid
development, we can actually track to
see that this is faithfully
recapitulated. And it is. We start with
these early neuronal progenitors that
then start to give rise to deep layer
neurons
that then give rise to uh gabaurgic
progenitors, excitatory neuron
progenitors. And finally after 3 or 4
months we get highly synaptically
organized neuronal networks within the
organoid that hopefully the organoid
contains the cell types that we want.
But not all organoids are created equal.
In the developing brain there in the
developing cortex, there are two
neuronal subtypes that are incredibly
important and their interplay is very
important. These are excitatory neurons
that mediate most of the and these
respond to glutamate the
neurotransmitter glutamate. These were
these um
these are the main excitatory output
sensory output from from the uh
developing cortex and then you have the
inhibitory neurons which are there to
kind of put the brake on the excitatory
neurons and make sure they're not too
excitable. Um there's a lot of things
that can go wrong in these interactions
which result in hyperexitability which
is uh attributed to epilepsy. Um
this this interaction between these cell
types is extremely complicated. There
was a paper that just came out that in
the in the developing mouse cortex,
there are there are thousands of
different types of inhibitory neurons
that all have different functions on
regulating the activity of excitatory
neurons. And so there are a number of
different ways to make these organoids
using different protocols from different
labs. And what I want you to appreciate
here is that the developing neoortex has
about 25% inhibitory neurons.
If you look at some of these protocols
here, the inhibitory neurons are
replicate are are indicated by or the
the percentage of inhibitory neurons is
is indicated by the the green pi in the
in the pie chart. And you can see that
some of these protocols pretty
faithfully recapitulate what you see in
the developing neoortex whereas some
like the biradal have hardly any
gabberurgic inter neurons. Well, I'm
interested in sdxbp1 which regulates how
excitatory and inhibitory neurons
communicate. So, I want to use a
protocol that makes an organoid that
contains the cell types that I need to
study the intricacies of the neuronal
network and how the neurons can actually
communicate.
Again, not all organoids are are
equal even using the same protocols.
This is data from from uh my lab at
Colombia where we took IPS cells and
their controls made organoids from from
different cell lines and we looked at
their morphology or how they look and
their activity and you can see that on
the left those are beautiful organoids.
Yes, I'm a nerd. That's a beautiful
organoid.
The ones in the middle, not so good.
This is at 18 days. At 18 days, very
early in their development, they start
to form these blebs that are almost
reminiscent of embryionic yolk like
structures, and then they just implode
and die. And on the far right, we again,
we have nice, beautiful organoids, but
when we go to measure their electrical
activity, they're largely inert. So,
there's this trade-off. You want
something that has really nice
morphology and structure, but also you
want something that has a a good
activity profile, electrical activity
profile that you can measure.
So let's get into the application in the
last few minutes of the talk and and see
how you can try to put all of these
different in vitro tools together to
model a disorder and develop a gene
targeted therapy.
So obviously when Lucas was born I made
IPS cells from him. That's what I do. Um
and from me and my wife. My wife's IPS
cells were terrible at making organoids,
which I like to point out often. Um,
mine mine were really mine were really
good, actually.
Um, so the first thing we did was we we
differentiated these IPS cells into just
2D neurons in a dish because I wanted to
see if the the neurons themselves
recapitulated what we thought was going
on with Lucas's mutation, which is a
frame shift or a protein truncating
variant. So he should have hlo
insufficiency and about a 50% reduction
of STX BPP1 protein. And so we did that.
We differentiated these in a dish and
after about 65 days or two two months in
in a dish. We harvested the protein from
the from the neurons and we checked the
expression levels of STX BPP1 and as
expected Lucas's
neurons contain about 50% less STX BP1
than than my neurons.
So then we decided let's let's go after
an organoid model and I won't go into
all of the deta details and and data
that we acrewed over time developing
this organoid model but I'll show you
some of the activity measurements and
and how they um how they relate to gene
therapy development.
So,
this is uh a a a blowup of a single
organoid,
again, probably about half the size of a
pee at about four months old. And this
is one of Lucas's organoids. And I'm
going to play this movie and I want you
to appreciate the activity within the
organoid. So, you're going to see a big
bright flash, which is a synchronized
activity. Um, synchronous oscillations
are um, common in these closed loop
systems like an organoid. And you'll see
a big bright flash and then you'll see
some little blips in these highlighted
circles. You'll see big bright flashes
periodically. And that's these these
synchronous oscillations.
So big bright flash, a little blip, and
then you'll see another blip right here.
and then more of these synchronous
oscillations.
So, we can actually measure this and
start to quantify this and we could see
activity pattern differences between
Lucas' organoids and the control
organoids. For instance, you can already
tell that these
these bursts in Lucas's organoids are
wider and they have more more um spikes
within the organ within the within the
burst compared to the control. And as
well as these these bursts
are timed differently. There's more
space in between them. They're they're
longer. The bursts are longer. there's
more sp time in between them. So these
are all characteristics that we can use
to try to modulate with gene therapies.
So I'm very interested in therapies that
modulate how genes are expressed whether
they be uh anti-sense
oligoucleucleotides
or using an adaptation of genetic
engineering crisper cast 9 system called
crisper A. So this is a cast 9 protein
that should be able to cut DNA for the
editing uh purposes that I talked about
earlier, but the the act the um active
site of the protein has been mutated. So
it can't cut DNA. But you can still hone
this protein to anywhere in the genome
because it binds these little pieces of
RNA that are complmentary to different
places in the genome. So if you can find
these little RNAs for instance in the
STX BP1 gene regulatory elements like
the gene promoter, you can hone this
cast 9 protein to that region. Cast 9
itself isn't going to do anything. So
you need to add uh what's called a
transcriptional activation domain. This
brings in the machinery that helps
upregulate gene transcription from that
promoter. So using this crisper
activation technology,
we can upregulate or should be able to
upregulate STX BP1 mRNA that's then
translated into protein correcting HLO
insufficiency.
And
we first screened a number of these
different guide RNAs in the shitty cell
lines that I told you about earlier, HEC
293T and the neuroblastoma cell line
because they're easy, they're quick. Uh
you you can get a lot of information
quickly and we we found that to our
surprise almost all of our guide RNAs
were very effective at upregulating STX
BP1 expression.
So we took uh our crisper cast 9
uh crisper a
AAV virus and we transduced
organoids at about about 3mon-old
organoids with this virus that should be
able to correct HLO insufficiency.
And after about 2 weeks, 2 to 3 weeks,
we harvested RNA and DNA and tested
whether or not the STX BP1 protein and
RNA levels were corrected. And indeed,
they were. So in Lucas' organoids, we've
essentially reestablished the the normal
level of STX BP-1 expression.
What does that do to the physiological
defects that we identified in the in the
organoid, you know, the flashing movies?
Well, some of these those little blips
that you that I called your attention
to, those low amplitude events we think
are microcircuit defects potentially in
um related to uh epilepsy phenotypes.
And we showed that the crisper A virus
could actually reduce the incidence of
those low amplitude events thereby
potentially correcting that defect in
the organoids.
Moreover, if you look at a a number of
different cells on the Y ais, in this
case, hundreds of cells, and then over
time, what you can get is a picture of
activity
um in the organoid. And so those bursts
that I showed you earlier in the in the
colorful diagrams can be depicted by
these by these lines that go um up and
down on this what's called a raster
plot. So you can see in the control you
have very thin bursts in the whole
organoid. These are the synchronized
oscillations and and in the in Lucas's
organoids again the bursts are wider the
the dark lines are thicker and there's a
different spacing. They're in general
further apart. If we apply the crisper a
virus we can start to correct that. the
bursts shorten, the interbururst or the
time in between bursts begins to
shorten, indicating that we're starting
to have positive effects on the
neurohysiology of these organoids with a
geneargeted therapy. And so this is one
very powerful uh application of in vitro
models for developing and testing gene
targeted therapies in a disease relevant
clinically relevant model
and
fast leaves no stone unturned. They've
funded work that is involved in using
the crispercast 9 gene editing function
to essentially just chew up the UBA
anti-sense transcript.
There's another group that used a very
clever method to actually
um
turn off the anti-sense transcript by
methylating the region by by using
epigenetic modifiers that will methylate
a certain region that turns off the
anti-sense transcript thereby
upregulating the paternal UB3A. a
transcript. And then I think just last
year um FAST has also um doubled down on
a on a crisper activation technology
similar to what I what I described to um
hopefully
meet uh a therapeutic potential for for
the deletion genotype.
With that,
I'll stop. Thank some colleagues from
Colombia and the end team at Penn and
Chop. And I'm only slightly past time.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Okay.
>> Thank you so much.
So, as you can see, that's really
complicated and it's hard to make that
simple because it's not. But what I want
you to realize is that when everyone's
like, "Why is this taking so long, you
need to do all of that, which can take
years before you can ever even put it
into an animal to test if it has the
potential and the possibility of even
working. So our next talk is to talk to
us about putting it into an animal to
show us the possibility of how it might
work, which gets a little bit more
simple as we go closer and closer to
humans." So I know that was a lot. I
know that was complicated, but you can
see the elegance and the beauty of the
science and that's why things take a
long time and cost a lot of money. One
thing I just want to highlight is that I
was told the QR code for translations in
the brochure is not working. So, they're
putting a new QR code on every table.
So, if you need translations, just use
the new QR code to get your
translations. We want to make sure
everybody can hear and understand.