So with that, our next speaker is Dr.
Ronnie Samakco, who's going to be
talking to us about what does invivo
mean and how do these models matter in
Angelmen syndrome. Ronnie.
So, first I'd like to thank by uh start
by thanking Allison for the invitation
to join you all today and thank you to
all the families, parents, caregivers,
and researchers, all the stakeholder
communities that are here joining us for
this fantastic event. So my name is
Rodney Samco and I'm going to be talking
about why does invivo or what does
invivo mean and why do models matter in
as
so [clears throat] this is my disclosure
statement.
So a little bit about how I got here. I
think many of you um may be familiar
with some of the people in these
pictures. So I have met some of you.
I've been to the fast event. I think the
last time was 2018 or 2019. Um, and that
was when I was a former academic at
Baylor College of Medicine in Texas
Children's Hospital. But it really has
been quite a journey. And the reason I'm
telling you this kind of long-winded
history is for the purpose of today,
right? You made the choice. You made the
choice to come here, take the flight
that may or may not be cancelled later
today. [laughter]
um and deal with what may be going on
all around you, whether that be personal
or professional. But the reason you are
here today is to shape that perspective
of empowerment, empowerment of knowledge
and knowing that once you have that
knowledge, you could understand what's
happening in the Angelmen community and
all the efforts that are going towards
and I say efforts. So what I mean by
that is whether it be people, personnel,
capacity, finances, resources, etc. all
those efforts that are going towards
finding actionable therapies for
Angelmen syndrome. And so I started off
as an undergrad at UC Davis. I know
there are many researchers that we are
indebted to for developing some of the
work that's ongoing at UC Davis. I
worked with Janine Lasowl and she
trained with someone you may know, Mark
Lant, who was one of the co-discoverers
of the mutations in UB3A that cause
Angelman syndrome alongside Art Bodat.
And in 1999, I was a um very excited
undergrad to join Baylor College of
Medicine as a summer intern working with
young and art. And that was an exciting
time for me as you could see young ways
there in that picture. Moving forward, I
had a lab as I said a former academic
Baylor College of College of Medicine
and Texas Children's Hospital. and was
quite exciting to basically focus on
pre-clinical models of rare
neurodedevelopmental conditions and
epilepsy disorders. And so my expertise
is in modeling animals models modeling
animals mice and rats.
>> No, it's still to the right. It's good.
>> Oh,
>> it's there.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Hi, everyone. [laughter]
Thank you, Allison. Um yeah, so I was
saying to the far right, that's uh my
lab there. Um but leveraging rodent
models to study um the preclinical
measures that we could use as readouts
when we're testing specific therapies,
whether they be ASOS, uh whether they be
gene therapies or small molecules, etc.
I left uh that life, it seems like such
a long time ago, and basically joined a
non uh nonprofit organization, a
disability nonprofit in DC. and so spent
a lot of time um in DC working on the
hill and talking with various
communities like yourselves but also the
big D the big disability communities
with respect to physical and
non-physical um disabilities learned a
lot there it was quite an interesting
experience doing strategy in this time
and also business development but I
bring you back to where I am now as a
consultant so I lead Rarian which is a
brand of the uh rare collective
strategies LLC and has shaped my
perspective today which I hope will also
shape yours because again as I said
earlier empowerment having that
knowledge knowledge is power and
understanding what we're doing today
will help bring back and circle back to
you about how we could uh develop
therapies for the future. So I like to
look at this layer cake which you know
maybe some of you who are in New York
where you could find this layer cake. So
creating a layered community of
expertise and resources. You'll hear
that a lot from me and others as well as
we move forward with the talks to
actionable therapies. Right? So those
component parts are not so linear in the
journey. Right? And so all of the
stakeholder communities some shown here
include yourselves, families, patient
advocacy groups, organizations. Then you
have the researchers, clinicians and
scientists, academic partners, industry
also represented or well represented
here in the room in contract
organizations that help propel and
towards therapy. And finally, we have um
the entities that we need to interface
with to get approval and finally get
this two people right, regulatory
agencies all working together, but yet
not so linear as depicted in that slide.
And so many of you have participated in
the externally led PFDD meeting and that
um is now online was published in
November 3rd. I guess November 3rd it
was online. Um and I just want to uh
hope you appreciate these two uh arrows
here in orange where uh you all have
indicated that the most significant
impact on people with as communication,
daily living and cognition and the
priority for yourselves are
communication, seizures, lack of
mobility and sleep with respect to
treatment modalities.
But how does this all relate to invivo
models?
So why do we need those invivo models
and what is the value of them? Okay, so
what can we learn is one of the points
today. So these are the key takeaways
from my talk. So if you um basically
ignore everything, fall asleep, just
look at those four points right now.
What can we learn from invivo models? So
we're using models as tools to
understand the why. And I put in
parenthesis the mechanism. So sometimes
you might hear folks say, "Oh, well,
what's the mechanism? What's the
mechanism of action?" We do test in
mice, in rats, in other invivo models as
well to understand that. And models are
complex, right? These are all complex
systems, a complex path towards the end
goal of finding a therapy. So we want to
use those models to identify and
evaluate their utility with respect to
preclinical endpoints. So all of these
mouthfuls, right? Surrogate endpoints
you may hear as well. This is all our
constructs of interpretation when we
have an experiment that's designed,
that's tested, and then interpreted.
Right? So that's a very clear and
specific purpose. But what we're trying
to do is ensure that we're safeguarding
against any possible risk. So sometimes
you may hear de-risking, right, a
therapeutic asset when we consider the
next steps. I think that's important to
understand the limitations of the model.
Mice are not humans. So this idea of
anthropomorphizing very long word there
but basically mice will never be a
human. We could cure many conditions in
mice as well as other model systems but
at the end of the day the final
experiment the goal is to put it in a
person. I say it whatever that medicine
is an ASO a gene therapy etc. But it's
all adding to the body of evidence that
supports that drug development process.
So finally, how can we leverage these
tools, these models? So we evaluate
them, we compare and identify those
actionable therapies, whether they are
safe and effective, like I said earlier,
even if we don't have immediate answers
to all questions. So why wait, right? I
think many of you may agree with that
and resonates with you as well. So
sometimes when I speak to folks about
what they're doing in their labs or what
companies are working on, I like to
remind them as researchers, but also
beyond the research communities, the
stakeholders in the room, families that
to focus on your northstar, especially
when we think about model studies. And
so I have this diagram here, this
cartoon about community engagement going
through that process. So you are
engaged, you are here. The diagnostic
odyssey resolving well what is wrong
with my child? What is wrong with my
adult child etc. You're here you've had
that completed and then finally in vitro
modeling modeling which Michael
explained very well what can be done in
a dish. So invivo modeling is what we do
in a live organism and that's what's
referred to as invivo. But really at the
end of the day, we have these questions
and you could see we're trying to unpack
the when, where, what, why, and how.
Okay, what's the question? But we also
ask ourselves who's asking this question
and who benefits. And I think that's
important to keep in perspective. And
there's a matrix in that thought, right?
The end goal versus the motivation. As
it looks nice here in terms of that
matrix or that cross, it not doesn't
necessarily align, right? So we have to
also consider what are the incentives
when we're working with our
collaborators in this process
in the lab. If you say from a basic
science lab or translational science
lab, there are questions of discovery
based science and hypothesisbased
science. And so looking at some of these
features that are critical to the
community as you have articulated in the
uh report from the ELPFD,
communication, cognition, seizures,
motor, and sleep. Those are the symptoms
that were listed as being critical for
targeted therapeutics. So how does that
fit into using animal models and this
idea of discovery versus
hypothesis-based testing? So, I'm going
to go through examples and let me just
go back one slide. Um, here. Oh, okay.
Well, it's not there. But follow the top
ticker, right? Because I'm going to go
through these examples of biology
model features. So, those are behavioral
features for example or phenotypes as
sometimes you might hear. And then
finally, develop therapies. And each of
these examples will be hit by the next
few slides. Okay. So why as models
matter and the lessons learned from
biology. So Seth Margolus will be
speaking next about the biology and
there are experts in this room who know
way more than me about Angelman syndrome
and how it's organized in terms of its
genomic organization. But the idea of
creating a mouse in which that mouse
lacks has been knocked out um or a
knockout mouse for Angelman syndrome was
back in 1998 when Yanquay in Art's lab
published this model of Angelman
syndrome that had the UB3A the Angelman
gene deleted from the maternal paternal
maternal alil right with the paternal
alil still reser uh retained and that
was also followed by several studies,
many studies I would say. So Ed Weieber
who you know in 2003 published after
that and and many others including uh
even today I was reading some papers
early this morning. So many people have
used this mouse model. the reason why
we're using the mouse for biology. So
that's one aspect of the value of model
systems is the high degree of similarity
with human UB3A again the gene that
causes Angelmen and it's informative
because it shows us how it's regulated.
How can we interrogate the system? How
can we design those experiments to test
hypotheses? But how can we also design
experiments so that we could understand
even beyond the that locus what might be
happening in an animal? Okay, again
animals not people, right? That's going
to inform us for the next steps that
opportunity. Can we take advantage of
what is happening in the system of the
machinery and leverage for example that
anti-sense transcript? Many of you have
heard looking at that blue arrow UB3A
ATS standing for anti-sense. Can we take
advantage to develop some kind of
therapy and there are other therapies
that are going to be talked about later
today including a very exciting talk um
that's tomorrow uh related to gene
therapy. Okay. So then you might ask
okay so you have a mouse model in hand
but why is it that I keep on hearing
about other models many other models
also a rat also a pig etc. Yes, I agree
with you. Right. Several animal models
have been made, but they have been made.
You have to ask again, why? Remember
that little cross that I showed you, the
goal versus the motivation. There are
variety of purposes for why we create
these model organisms, whether they be
mice, whether they be pigs, etc. This
table here uh was published from EP
Elgma's lab, which many of you may also
know, and it summarizes very nicely the
models um up to 2020. And there are new
models too. I you're going to hear a
talk today about a large deletion model
from Young Waste Lab. But the point is
is that researchers are seeking clarity
for both the biology and also seeking to
inform translational work in models.
Informing translational work
translational being in quotes there. I
think that's important to understand
because this idea of how does a mouse,
how does a model actually recapitulate
the features of a human or of a person
with Angelman syndrome, right? Looking
at these mice, would you ever be able to
tell, for example, that a mouse is less
social, has altered communication, has
mobility issues? No, they all look the
same, right? And so, how do we actually
go about testing these models? Um, I'm
going to give you some examples here,
right? Again, I like to emphasize mice
are not people with a exclamation point
there. And I think you've might get sick
of me saying that, but that's really the
point for moving forward with why these
models matter and still and will
continue to matter in the future, right?
So we try to learn from some of their
inherent natural behaviors and
understand what is different between an
animal model like a mouse that doesn't
have any UB3A being expressed versus an
animal model a mouse that is
neurotypical or typical developing right
so basically um completely intact.
That's called a wild type mouse. So if
you hear wild type that's what it refers
to. But we've tried to test these
animals not just for their natural
behavior, but how they also perform in a
variety of tasks. So we're looking at
performance and using our lens of
interpretation to see if we alter this
gene and that relates to alterations in
a brain circuit, how does that relate to
the behavioral readout? And then
finally, how can we take that readout
and leverage it for the purpose of a
preclinical study to test a therapeutic?
So when you hear behavior in animal
models like mice, you may wonder, okay,
is this something new? Like, did we make
this up? Like, no. No. I mean, this has
been around for a long time. I mean,
yeah. Well, I mean, it's been studied
since 1907 in which this is, you can
find this online. It's free. The dancing
mouse, uh, it was published by Jüks, so
who was a behavioral psychologist at the
time, and it was the first report of a
behavioral evaluation in a mouse model.
And this mouse was called the dancing
mouse. So it was jumping around and had
some kind of mobility issue. What they
found was that there was an inner ear
defect, some morphological defect. And
what they did was take the mouse and
breed it. And this alluded to the
genetics in terms of the genetic
inheritance of the animal model over
time even though they didn't have that
information. But to this point is that
the behavior and the mechanism go hand
in hand. So when we're studying Angelman
syndrome mouse models, we're also trying
to do the same when we test them in
behavioral assays. If you go online and
look up Jill Silverman, she's done a ton
of work related to modeling behavioral
features as well as Michael Cidarov, I
think he was here yesterday or in the in
the room um behavioral features in
models of AS and many of them are in
cases reproducible and reliable. But
that altered behavioral features in as
mice is only one entry point to test in
vivo. So in a living organism, what
happens? What are the consequences? What
are the benefits when you administer a
drug in a freely moving animal? So
lessons learned from model features. I'm
going to just go over these two
examples. Um, when you hear open field
activity and marble burring, you may
wonder, what are they even talking about
when you're putting a mouse and looking
at it in an open field or having a mouse
play with marbles? Like, what does that
even mean? So, open field is a test in
which you put a mouse in a chamber and
it's measuring its activity
spontaneously
in a freely moving animal and uses
infrared beam to detect movement. And
so, this is an automated test. you put
the mouse in and you let it go ahead and
do its thing and what you can measure is
the distance traveled and that's a
surrogate for I would say mobility right
uh and movement conditions or disability
and so in that graph there and this is
published from a paper uh from eBay Igma
and Michael Cidarov uh where they looked
at the Angelmen mice and tried to
identify what is the most reproducible
reliable endpoints when we think about
behavior um in these mice and so they
found that comparing black to red there
was a reduction in distance traveled
right so this is looking at the y ais
that's basically distance traveled
movement and then the x-axis wt standing
for wild type as standing for angelman
syndrome mouse to the right you see
marble burring okay so marble burring is
a test in which there's a cage and
there's bedding on it you put the
marbles there and you see how many
marbles are are buried by the mouse
after a period of time. And so you may
wonder how does this relate, right?
Again, we're trying to use the mouse as
a tractable system to manipulate the
genetics and then test the performance.
And so putting a mouse in this cage with
the marbles, you'll find that it will
display some kind of repetitive behavior
when it comes to digging and burring the
marbles, actively burring them. And so
some people interpret this as
perverative behavior. Others inter
interpret this as avoidance or
anxiety-like behavior. For us in the
room, if you would say talking to the
disability community, talking to rare
genetic families, what does that even
mean when I'm thinking about my child,
right? And that's the point, right? This
is the end point. This is a surrogate
endpoint or readout for what might be
happening when you manipulate one
variable and test another measurement.
And so looking to the right you see a
graph again blue and red sorry black and
red black black corresponding to the
typical developing mouse wild type and
red to the angelman uh mouse you see a
reduction in the number number of
marbles buried so at the bottom I think
that's an important point um to consider
what does this mean to you right and
what does it mean to us and actually
from a person centered perspective again
empowering you with this knowledge is
important because you could understand
realistic expectations when you see
papers that are published whether or not
there's a correction in marble bearing
whether or not there's a correction in
open field what does that mean for the
science and leveraging the potential
what we say proof of concept study
moving forward for therapy development
or for the drug development process but
we also embrace the model's limitation
and that's the importance there we need
to have that trust in the science and
what people are doing here today. What
fast is supporting with respect to the
researchers and and the other academics
and clinicians and that process of
science itself and the drug development
process. Finally, I'm going to go over
this third example where developing
therapies. So, where models really are
helpful towards understanding if they
can be used for proof of concept
studies. And I put that in quotes. Proof
of concept. So, what does that mean?
Does it mean it means that we're trying
to design test and interpret the
findings from a potential early stage
asset I say asset so whether that be a
gene therapy whether that be a small
molecule and understand in a whole
animal freely moving intact not a
reduced cellular preparation what
happens when you take that drug and put
it in that living thing. So I had said
earlier I was talking about Marbleberg I
was talking about open field. We're
trying to see if there is an improvement
there. But we're also looking at an
example here um and this is the ASO that
was first published in 2014 um by
Arpodet lab in Linen Mang was a graduate
student at the time and we're looking at
molecular readouts as well. And so you
see this kind of gray and black thing to
the right that is called a western blot
image. And so you see bands, you see
letters, and you're like, "What is
that?" Just look at the arrow. Okay?
Looking at the arrow, you could see this
band of three under PBS and a band of
three under ASO. In between, you see no
bands, right? And so what this is
telling us is that the typical
developing animal expresses UB3A
and then the animal that has been
administered in ASO has some improvement
in UB3A expression specifically protein.
And so this was really exciting for the
entire field as it's represented using
an invivo model that is a genetic
deletion a knockout of the UB3A gene the
Angelman syndrome gene plus the ASO to
basically block the anti-sense uh
transcript. You could derpress that
paternal expression and allow what's
already present to do its thing to
basically make UB3 protein. So very
exciting time and it's exciting time
today because we're building that body
of evidence through these models. So
model systems again understanding their
limitations but also their importance
has made possible the ability to expand,
develop and pursue novel new therapeutic
modalities as well as develop additional
types of ASOs that may potential may
potentially have value for uh the
community.
I don't know why it looks like that, but
basically
these are just screenshots of some of
the examples of ASOS to the far left of
papers that have published. But who
cares about papers? I mean, we do care
about papers. At the end of the day, the
papers are good because they demonstrate
we're reporting back what has been
invested in. So that ROI, that return on
investment papers again, the incentives
need to align. That's the currency for
the academics. But the currency for
people is getting that to clinic,
getting that to a person. So
transforming what is a big dream or
dreams to reality is what we're trying
to do today and move that forward. In
the middle you could see there's a
crisper a modality. You heard that from
Michael. So another way to basically
improve a phenotype in a mouse. At the
bottom was one of the first uh I think
it was the first study related to gene
therapy in a different type of context.
And you're going to hear this tomorrow
from an exciting group at UCLA that's
moving the gene therapy approach
forward, which Allison has shared with
me at a meeting last week. It looks
really exciting. Okay, so I'm going to
end my talk here, but key takeaways on
the value of invivo models and why we
need them. Those four orange points,
like I said, if you totally checked out,
I get it and I totally understand. It's
early. It's Saturday. You all are here.
But those four orange points are
important takeaways. So what can we
learn using those models as tools?
Understanding the why complex systems.
We know that these are all complex but
we want to understand the models
themselves. Can we leverage them?
Identify preclinical endpoints. Those
surrogate endpoints that we have
interpreted as a community that may be
then leveraged as tools for a clear and
specific purpose. safeguarding again
against possible issues and concerns in
the process. And then finally, as I
said, leveraging basically understanding
if a drug is safe and effective even if
we don't understand what it's all doing
or we don't understand all the bio
biology. And with that, I would like to
thank you, you all for being here,
Allison, the fast leadership and team,
and our summit sponsors and exhibitors.
It's been a fantastic time. Thank you.
>> [applause]
>> That was that was wonderful and I think
we all appreciate uh the value of models
and we also appreciate moving on from
models.