Um, but this next talk is really meant
to explain what is UB3A. We all say it.
We've all learned to say it. Um, but do
we all understand actually what it does
and and why it's so important and why
ensuring we have UB3A
can help to improve the lives of those
living with Angelman Syndrome. So, um,
I'm excited for you to to hear Dr. Seth
Margolus from John Hopkins University. I
was lucky enough to hear him speak in at
fast Italy last year and when I heard
his presentation I was incredibly
touched by the intricacies of his
knowledge of UB3A and I've been working
now on UB3A for almost a decade and I
haven't heard someone so elegantly
explain what it does. So I thought it
was really important that I didn't only
hear that but you all heard that. So,
I've tasked him with explaining it in a
way that we all can understand because
it's complicated. It's super
complicated. Um, but I think he's going
to do that. I previewed his slides and
they're excellent. So, I have no doubt
that you're going to accomplish this.
And you could also explain that your
wife is a school teacher. So, you
promised me she was going to give a
thumbs up to your slides before you
actually gave them to our community. So,
Seth, thank you.
>> All right. Thank you, Seth. Thank you.
[applause]
All right.
Okay. All right. Um, thank you to the
Allison and to the organizers for the
invitation and thank you Allison for
that nice introduction. Um, as Allison
said, today I'm going to talk to you
about UB3A.
Um, and I think before I get into that,
I wanted to give some context.
So, our nervous systems, central and
peripheral nervous systems are made up
of neurons. we're all very familiar with
and they're really critical for our
behaviors, controlling our behaviors and
sensing our world. And within our
neurons, in all of our neurons and many
of you have already now seen from
several of the slides in previous talks,
these beautifully colored images,
these are proteins within all of our
neurons. These are proteins and
scientists have the capacity to color
these proteins. So, and I just name a
few up there and the specifics aren't
really important. What's really
important here is just to realize that
within our neurons are these proteins
and these proteins are what's doing the
functions of our neurons. So, the first
sort of take-home is neurons contain
proteins that do the work.
So, proteins aren't just there. They
don't just pop up from nowhere. Proteins
are made. proteins are made in all of
our cells. Okay? And I'm not going to go
through the details of these complex
molecular events that make our proteins.
But on the top part here where I write
nason protein, that's the birth of a
protein. And then there's the process
where it's folded. And eventually in the
folded protein, that's the protein that
goes on and does all the important
functions of all of our cells, including
neurons. And throughout this process,
our cells have this amazing capacity to
determine whether the protein's being
made properly or at a specific time
whether we no longer need that protein.
And that's this process where you see
the red being broken up into tiny little
lines. That's protein degradation. And
this process in whole is referred to as
protein homeostasis. All of our cells,
neurons included, want to make sure that
our protein levels, both the proteins
that are made and the proteins that are
degraded are kept at a even level. It's
very well regulated.
So the next take-home is proteins are
made and removed in our neurons. And
this removal process is controlled by
this incredible structure within all of
our cells, including neurons. This is
referred to as the proteosome. It's
something my lab studies in great
detail. And it might look complicated,
and I'm not going to get into all of the
details of what you're looking at here,
but I think you can appreciate that this
picture of this 20s proteosome on the
left looks kind of like a rectangular
barrel. And if we flip it and look down
the top, there's a hole there. And that
hole is where our proteins go to get
degraded.
So it's in some regard referred to as
the trash can of the cell.
So I'm going to go back. Okay. So the
protein complex here that's degrading
our proteins is really important for
cell function, including neuron
function. And all it does is degrade
proteins. So it needs help in
determining which protein should we
degrade. Otherwise it would just degrade
every protein that it came near. So
these larger structures, these gray
structures on the top, these are
referred to as caps. It looks like a
cap. It sits on the top and the bottom.
And these structures are very important
for unfolding our proteins. Remember you
saw that red folded protein. proteins
are in that folded shape. These
structures unfold the protein and put it
into that pore so it can get degraded.
So proteosomes remove our proteins.
Those are the key players. These are the
key critical players in this protein
homeostasis process and they're really
important for nervous system function.
So here's a neuron. It's flashing. It's
active. It's functioning. Okay. If I
inhibit the proteosome using a small
chemical inhibitor, you get a very small
change in in activity very rapidly. And
this is to illustrate here quantified
that a proteome
functions to control the neuron and if
we inhibit it, it very rapidly can
change the neuron's function.
Okay. So simply no proteomes you get no
protein removal and the neurons don't
function well. So the control the
proteosome's ability to control protein
degradation is critical. And I as as I
just mentioned
it doesn't just function all by itself.
It needs to be told what to degrade. We
don't just degrade every protein.
Just as you wouldn't just throw
everything in your house into the trash
can, it needs to be told what to
degrade. And that's largely controlled
by this process. This is the ubiquitin
proteome system. And many of you may
already be familiar with this. And
there's a series of steps that I just
want to quickly take you through. So
there is a substrate. A substrate is the
protein we want to degrade. And then
there are these other molecules E1, E2
and E3.
They work together
to associate with that substrate and put
that protein into the proteosome to
degrade it. And the E3,
that's what UB3A is. UB3A is the E3
ligase. It's one of 600 E3 liases in our
genome
that helps to target specific proteins
to go to the proteosome to get degraded.
And so
what I want you to appreciate is that
UB3A in our cells in our neurons tags
some proteins, not all proteins, but
specific proteins to be removed by the
proteosome and that's good for the
neuron. That's the key appreciation for
understanding UB3A. And there's a lot of
mechanistic detail about how it does
that. We're not going to get into that
here, but I'm going to tell you more at
a high level about what are the types of
proteins that UB3A might target. How do
we go about finding that? And how may
that give us insight on how when UB3A is
gone, you get such a broad change in
developmental function.
So, a couple other details that I want
to point out.
Neuron is a complex cell type. You've
seen pictures of these before. You have
a soma, a nucleus, this sort of
triangular shape at the bottom, but then
you have these long processes and there
are proteins across the entire neuron
including inside the nucleus. And
proteosomes are located everywhere and
so is UV3A. And you can have ubiquitin
mediated proteosome dependent
degradation
at all of these locations.
And what's not always so obvious when
you look at these images is that the
substrates while the I should back up
while the proteosomes and the E3 liases
are everywhere the substrates in these
different location remember those are
the things that want to be degraded are
different throughout the cell.
I also wanted to make this point which
is UB3A is an E3 ligase is disrupted in
Angelman syndrome and there are other E3
liases that have also been found when
mutated lead to other
neurodedevelopmental disorders.
And so a big question in the field and
something my lab is particularly
interested in is to understand
what protein substrates of E3 liases are
relevant to human health. and in
particular Angelman syndrome. What are
the substrates of UB3A that give rise to
phenotypes that lead to
neurodedevelopmental dysfunction? And
I'm going to tell you towards the end of
why I think that has some value in
thinking of leading to potential
treatments. So I'm going to sort of skip
over a lot of years of data and I'm
going to share with you at least one
substrate first and then I'm going to
tell you how we went to find every
substrate we could possibly find.
So as a postoc when I was working with
Michael Greenberg at Harvard we had
discovered this protein referred to as a
fexin 5 and this protein played a very
unique function in the nervous system.
So this these neurons are what we're
looking at here are fluorescent neurons.
These are expressing this GFP protein.
And we could quantify the number of
contacts these neurons were making with
other neurons. And what I hope you can
appreciate just from this bar graph is
that if you remove effects in five, you
get way more contacts. It seems like
it's a good thing, but it's actually not
the ideal situation.
So when we looked at this protein
effects and five labeled E5 on the top,
I hope you can appreciate and this is a
developmental
representation of looking at effects and
five at different stages in development
from neurons and you can see that
protein band at the very top going away.
That's this protein getting degraded.
So naturally this protein gets degraded
and that's something we learned as we
were doing research on this protein.
So, FEXin 5 blocks the neuron and it we
found was degraded by the proteosome and
it turns out with further research that
UB3A
was the E3 liase targeting this protein.
And what I'm showing you here is that
when I mix UB3A with effectin 5, you get
this smear, this band that sort of rides
up on the gel. And that's an indication
that this thing is being ubiquitated.
This is being targeted by effectin 5.
And in animal models where we remove
UB3A,
if you look in the middle lane of the
three lanes there, you can see there's
more effects in five. Okay, so this
predicted that UB3A targets effects in
five. That's what the data we're
demonstrating to the proteosome, which
we all learned about now. And so no U3A
is too much effect five. Okay, which
turns out to not be great for the
neuron. And the reason it's not great is
because when you have too much effects
in five, you actually have reduced
synaptic contact. And so we predicted
from a substrate sort of hypothesis that
if we reduced the effects in five in the
UB3A animal models, we would potentially
rescue behavior. And that's sort of what
we saw. So these behavioral tests sort
of evaluates
the sort of cognitive functioning of the
animal. And we learned on the left side
here that the animals have reduced
behavior compared to controls. That's
these lower error bars.
But that if we remove effects in five,
we could rescue that. And so reducing
effects in five restores function when
UB3 is gone. And in a more general
sense, it indicated the possibility that
substrates might be we know are
downstream of UB3A. That when UB3 is
gone, those substrates are now
deregulated. They're not being degraded
or they're not being regulated properly
and might be the foundation for some
aspects of phenotypes observed in
Angelman syndrome. So my lab became very
interested in like what are all the
substrates of UB3A? lot of technology
today allows us affords us the
opportunity to sort of go after
everything at once. So what this is sort
of de this image here is sort of showing
you is a sort of experimental outline of
what we did and I can take you through
it briefly. So we have basically glass
slides with 20,000 human proteins
printed on the slides. We can then
incubate remember the E1, E2 and in this
case UB3A and ubiquitin on these slides
and we could look at every protein that
could potentially be ubiquitated by
UB3A.
And on the right is a heat map. This
sort of demonstrates things proteins
that are more ubiquitated with UB3A
versus controls.
So what do we learn? UB3A has many
possible protein targets
and it's hard actually to look at the
data and you know easily separate out
which are the most important targets,
which are the ones that might have the
highest relevance. And so you have to
take your time to systematically
think about this and use
artificial intelligence or other types
of approaches to really begin to
understand what does all of this mean?
And I also want to keep something in
mind. Even though we see all of these
proteins that can be ubiquitated
by UB3A, it doesn't mean that they all
are being ubiquitated in our neurons
equally well or at least in a capacity
that mediates effects on our biology.
But it gives us a foundation.
So when we look at all these different
proteins and we try to understand what
are the different classes of proteins
we're seeing a couple things come out
that are interesting. Many of them are
expressed in the brain. Some of those
substrates are associated with other
neurodedevelopmental dysfunction. And
there are various pathways that might
indicate a relationship between the loss
of UB3A
and changes in some of the behaviors
that we've seen including motor deficits
and others that I think this group will
hear more about in the talks to coming
and are very familiar with.
So the sort of take-home here is some
UB3 targets are known a typo there to
impact various brain disease and be a
part of many brain processes. Okay. So
what do we do with this information?
Clearly adding back UB3A makes the most
sense. I think it's really the best way
to go because it's going to take care of
the loss of capacity of targeting these
different substrates. But if we were to
actually want to go after specific
substrates such as say effects in five,
how would we do that? Is that even
possible? That seems really hard. Well,
I'll tell you that technology today is
given us the opportunity to do that. And
some of that stems from the recognition
and the realization and alpha fold was
already introduced that we know the
structures or can generate the
structures of every one of these
substrates in association with UB3A.
So this is just an illustration where in
blue is the UB3A structure and in orange
is different substrates that we
identified. Now, why is this important?
Well, it's important because it tells us
that UB3A binds its substrates
as do all liases. Okay? And that means
we can control that. We can control it
by using or identifying small molecules
that can bring together any two proteins
together. And these molecules are
referred to as molecular glues. So if
our goal was to take U was to say we
wanted to in the absence of UV3A target
one of the substrates, I could build a
molecular glue that could bring a liase
that is available that is still
expressed and target it to a substrate
that UB3A would normally target but now
can no longer because it's not there.
And I just wanted to introduce that
technology because I think it's relevant
for this audience.
So this comes from a collaboration with
a team of Hopkins scientists that I'm
introducing here where we've spent the
last four or five years maybe longer
trying to build some technology at
John's Hopkins to find these molecular
glue type molecules that would allow us
to bring together any E3 ligase with any
substrate of interest. And we do this in
such a way where we can look at as many
as possible.
Okay.
So drugging the human proteome.
So you're I've already introduced this
process to you to some extent where you
have a substrate, okay, and you have an
E2 and then you're bringing that
substrate all the way down to the point
where you're getting to the proteosome
where you can then get rid of that
substrate. And this little um I guess
it's a yellow drug, that's our molecular
glue. And our goal has been to identify
these molecular glues that bring
together an E3 ligase to a substrate of
interest to drive it to the proteosome.
So simply the way we do this is we can
express a large number of different
proteins. We can make any one of the
20,000 proteins in the human proteome.
There's actually more than that because
of isoforms, but we can make almost any
of them in any E3 liases. So in the
context of Angelman syndrome, we've been
making liases that we know are available
and still expressed and we've been
making substrates that we believe to be
relevant to the biology. We can then do
largecale screening and we can
ultimately identify these small
compounds that are effectively molecular
glues that allow for degradation. And
this is early days and this is a complex
process but we've had some success and
it gives us some opportunity to think
more deeply about the fact that there
are drug druggable capacities that allow
us to control normal cellular
degradation to remove target proteins
with a purpose and that would be an
ultimate goal and being able to test
that purpose is of great value moving
forward.
So I want to summarize getting us back
on time here. I want to summarize. So
neurons contain proteins that work. I
think that's very important to recognize
that they the proteins do the work in
our neur in our neurons. And proteins
are both made and they're removed. And
that's also really important to think
about. And proteosomes do this process
of removal. But you don't just remove
any protein, right? you have to
selectively choose that protein.
Okay. And another point I I sort of
skipped here, which is if you don't have
the ability to remove the protein, it's
not really ideal for the neuron. And the
way to specifically remove a protein in
the context of UB3A is to tag that
protein with ubiquitin, which then sends
it to the proteosome, and that's what
the neuron wants to have happen.
Now we've learned now that UB3A has many
many targets.
Okay. And those targets to some extent
give us insight into how the loss of
UB3A might give rise to a variety of
different pathways.
And reducing a UB3A substrate at least
in the one example I shared and there
are others in the field restores neuron
function when UV3A is gone. and that
there's now new technology that even
though UB3A may not be there, that would
allow us to still target those
substrates by co-opting another liase
and using a molecular glue to send that
substrate of interest to the proteosome.
And with that I will end a little early
but this none of this work is done
without the tremendous help from the
researchers that come through the lab as
well as the funding sources. So thank
you.
[applause]
That was an excellent talk and I got
text messages throughout it just for the
record that said that that was the best
overview of UB3A function that they've
ever heard from scientists. So just so
you're aware that was amazing and
hopefully families could keep up with
understanding in summary that UB3A is
complicated and it has thousands of
targets of what proteins it's
controlling. Either it's tagging it to
be broken down or it's tagging it to be
maintained.
and trying to understand every
downstream target is really hard. Um,
and what I learned was that there are
600 E3 liases and UB3 is one of them.
And this is the result of that one out
of 600 liases. That's only E3, not E1
and E2, which shows the power of one
gene, which is pretty incredible.
Therefore, we need to replace that one
gene and then we can ultimately affect
all the targets. But you need to
understand the complication of this.
Which is why when we think about how we
approach and fund research, we have to
think about what is the impact that that
research could have on individuals
living with Angelmen.