So now the next talk is going to be
great because now that you understand
what UB3A does, you can understand why
we want to replace it. And we're gonna
have a talk by um by our next speaker
here. Hold on. I had a Oh, by Dr. Emma
James. She's from Encoded Therapeutics.
And she's not here representing Encoded.
She's actually here because I heard her
speak about gene therapy appearance at
another conference that I was speaking
at and she just broke it down in such a
way that was so incredibly digestible
that I felt it was really important that
you all heard that because as you all
know gene therapy is a reality for
Angelmen syndrome today and we'll talk
more about that later today as well as a
ton about that tomorrow. Um but I want
Emma to be able to explain to you what
it means and how it works. So, Emma, if
you wouldn't mind, please take it away.
Make this very digestible.
[Applause]
>> Good morning, everyone. If any of you
see me talking more than once, you'll
see I always carry my uh bottle of water
around because I get crazy dry mouth
standing in front of you all. Um but
anyway, I would uh firstly like to thank
Allison and the meeting organizers um
for inviting me here to present today.
Uh my name is Emma James. I work for
Encoded. Um Encoded is a gene therapy
company developing um gene therapies for
uh neurological disorders.
Um
my disclosures I would coded. So as
you've already heard today, we've come a
long way in medicine. You know, we've
come from being able to develop
antibiotics to developing vaccines that
can save lives. And now we're really
entering a new phase uh of medicine with
treatment modalities that can go beyond
managing the symptoms to addressing the
whole range of um signs and symptoms uh
of certain genetic diseases. And it's at
its simplest the idea of gene therapy is
that you take a cell with a
non-functioning gene you add genetic
material and that leads to the cell
functioning normally.
So I'm going to use an analogy here. So
just like factories rely on detailed
manuals to produce products, cells rely
on DNA. And the DNA contains the
instructions. Think of it like
blueprints for building the tools our
bodies need to function. So here we have
the factory and the factory has manuals
and the manual contains uh individual
blueprints for individual products. A
light bulb, a telephone, security
camera.
Our cells are the factories. Our genome
which is made of DNA is the is the
factory manual and the individual genes
that comprise our our genome are the
individual instructions for individual
products which in the case of people are
proteins.
So the instructions inside this
blueprint are really complex and so the
factory has a process to simplify them.
So the factory here it's a light bulb
factory and it copies or transcribes
the relevant sections
into a clear stepby-step set of
instructions. Think of it like an
assembly guide and then the workers can
take that assembly guide and turn that
into the product. So in the factory it's
a light bulb in the for people it's the
protein.
So our cells work in the same way. So
first they transcribe the information in
the DNA of our genes and then they turn
that into a simpler form the assembly
guide that's called messenger RNA.
That messenger RNA is then this clear
set of instructions that is then
translated into a protein.
So
each cell contains lots and lots of sets
of instructions,
but it only chooses the sets of
instructions from uh that that it needs
based off the information it's getting
from the environment. So each factory is
responsible for specific products. So
here our factory makes only light bulbs.
It has all the blueprints for all the
different products, but it switches off
the blueprints for the telephone and the
security camera, and it focuses on the
blueprints for the light bulb.
And our cells work in in much the same
way. despite having this the range of um
of all the different genes in nearly all
the cells of the body,
they choose based off the signals that
they're getting which genes they're
going to switch on. So in this way a
brain cell will switch on the genes to
enable it to produce say an iron channel
or a neurotransmitter and it will switch
off the uh the the controls to that
would enable it to become a muscle cell
say measin.
Similarly, a muscle cell will switch on
the genes to enable it to be a a myasy
and it will switch off the genes that
enable it to be to produce iron channels
and neurotransmitters.
And so this is the way that um the cells
essentially are able to produce
differential gene expression based off
what that gene what that cell needs to
be and what it needs to produce.
So, how does a cell know um and control
which which genes it needs to be
producing?
Well, each gene has special tags that
mark qu clearly where the instructions
begin. And these regulatory elements are
essentially binding sites throughout the
DNA that help regulate both where and
when the the genes are expressed.
So firstly you have something called a
promoter which is a site in the DNA that
regulates where the cell initiates
transcription of a gene.
And then near the promoters we have
sites for things called transcription
factors. And these uh transcription
factors are DNA binding proteins that
help the cell uh regulate when or how
much of the gene is expressed. These
transcription factors can be positive or
they can or negative. So they can
upregulate or downregulate. And they are
cell specific again enabling a cell to
deter to to control what kind of cell it
wants to be.
So the promoter and the transcription
factors work um work together as a
complex on off but button to regulate
gene transcription um in in a very tight
manner and they can be very very highly
specific to a cell.
So the regulation of the gene or the
gene activity can happen both at the DNA
level. So DNA being transcribed into
messenger RNA which is that assembly
guide or the regulation can happen at
the translational level which is where
where the messenger RNA is copied into a
protein.
So now we're going to talk a little bit
about gene therapy.
So, think of gene therapy as a delivery
vehicle that goes into the factory with
a new set of instructions to replace or
change the blueprints that the factories
using. So, gene therapy can be used to
manipulate the gene expression and
control the activity of the protein. It
can work at the transcriptional level.
So it can affect the DNA or it can work
at the translational level u by
affecting the messenger RNA. But the
outcome is that you influence the
protein that is ultimately produced.
Gene therapy is an umbrella term for
multiple ways to manipulate how cells
work.
Typically, when people think about gene
therapy, they're thinking about when DNA
is delivered to the cell via via a
single administration therapy. Um, and
and we this could be gene addition, it
could be gene silencing, it could be
gene editing. And I'll come back to that
in in a few slides time.
According to the American Society for
Cell and Gene Therapy, which describes
gene therapy as the use of genetic
material or the delivery of genetic
material to um to prevent or treat
disease. RNA therapy would also uh fall
under this category.
RNA therapy uses shorter sequences of
RNA to adjust how proteins are made. um
but typically it's requires repeated
dosing.
Examples are anti-sensor loanucleotides,
microRNAs, small interfering RNAs and
vaccines.
What's a little bit more complex in
terms of how we need to think about it
here is while um while you know these
microRNAs
here fall into RNA therapy there is
there are now methods in development
where uh gene therapy is used to deliver
the DNA that that uh provides
instructions for the body to make
microRNAs and small and small
interfering RNAs etc. So it's it it can
be a little uh little difficult to to
really understand.
Um in terms of the difference uh if you
think about uh spinal muscular atrophy
there are there are drugs uh that have
been approved. There's one called
Zorgensma which is an AAV9based
gene replacement therapy and that's
that's really what people are thinking
about uh when they think about gene
therapy and that is administered once
and then there is something called
spinraza which is a chronically
administered anti-ensor lianucleide and
typically speaking that's not what
people think about when they're talking
about gene therapy.
We also have a a third class here of
gene modified cell therapies. And this
is a little bit different in that cells
are harvested, they're taken out of the
body, they are modified outside of the
body and then they're returned into the
body. And examples of this are things
like the karti amunotherapies that we
hear about uh for cancers uh as well as
things like lentivirus mediated gene
therapies such as leneli for
metacromatic lucadistrophe which is
another approved product in the US.
So the delivery truck that we use to put
the gene therapy into humans is called a
vector and vectors can be viral and they
can be nonviral.
Um nonviral vectors typically require
repeated administrations and they there
are things like um lipid nanop particles
and different polymers. viral vectors
are typically delivered as a one-time
administration.
Um, and they've evolved to be to be um
probably the for the forefront of gene
therapy because scientists have
determined how to remove the the virus's
own pathogenic
uh DNA and replace it with the
therapeutic DNA. We know that genes are
naturally evolved to be good at getting
into cells. So this has proven to be a
very good way of delivering delivering
gene therapy to the cells of interest
using the virus's natural capability to
infect cells.
So gene therapy can be delivered
directly to a person uh in vivo or
xvivo. So xvivo is what I just described
where the cells are taken out of the
body. they are modified in a petri dish
or a test tube and then those modified
cells are put back into the into the um
into the person. Invivo gene therapy is
where the um the gene therapy is
developed and then in and then put
straight into the person. Um and the the
the route that you you that you put in
the invivo gene therapy kind of depend
depends on the um on the the disease
you're trying to treat. For CNS
disorders, often you will want to use a
local route of administration. So maybe
directly into uh into the spine uh or or
maybe via an intra cerebral ventricular
injection strict into the the brain
ventricles in the brain.
Um but there are other novel capsids um
sorry I'll come to capsids in a moment.
There are novel um methods that enable
potentially enable uh introvenous
administration in development too.
There's the dry mouth coming.
So this cell here not this cell this
slide here is a little bit old. Uh this
data is from 2022.
um but I think broadly speaking it's
still um approximately correct still
today. So the most common viral vector
used is called an adeno associated
virus. Um and in 2022 about 20 65% of uh
clinical trials were using an AAV virus
followed by AAV was a lentivirus and a
lentivirus is typically administered
through Xvivo approaches. After that is
a denovo a deno virus and what I want to
highlight here is a deno virus and adeno
associated virus are completely
different viruses. They are unrelated
despite the name. Um adenoirus is a much
bigger virus and so you can actually
deliver much bigger genes but it's also
typically uh more immunogenic which
means it causes more of immune response
which is why AEV has has evolved to be
uh more popular and then uh the nonviral
delivery methods so such as plasmids and
nanoparticles are gaining in in
popularity too. I would expect a higher
proportion um of these to be used. Now,
a number of gene therapies have been
approved for use by the FDA. I'm not
going to go through this. Seven of them
are AAV based, but but there are also um
lentiviral based and adenoviral based
gene therapies too.
So, what makes AAV appropriate for use
as a vector in gene therapy? Well,
importantly, even the wild type, which
means the natural uh AAV, is not known
to cause disease in humans. Um, and they
don't really trigger much of an immune
response, which means it's less likely
to cause side effects.
So
what we do as I mentioned is we take the
virus, we remove the original virus
genes and then we replace them with new
genetic material which is called the
trans gene.
The viral shell is called a capsid and
there are different kinds of capsids uh
that have a different tendency to go to
different parts of the body. This capsid
is called the serereotype.
The serereotype Aav9
has been has has been shown to cross the
bloodb brain barrier. Um and so it has
become one of the more popular um gene
therapies used for CNS disorders, but
there are others and there are also
novel capsids that are in development
too. One of the downsides of AAV is that
they can only carry very small genes.
It's a tiny virus. That means that some
diseases caused by larger genes might
not be treatable with conventional gene
replacement therapy which is where you
just give a replacement gene. Um
which means that novel um no novel ways
to modulate the disease may need to be
um developed. So this is the case for
Angelman syndrome with the EB UB3A gene
which can't fit inside the uh the AEV
capsid which means we have to have uh
new new ways of addressing it.
So the AEV is a tiny virus and it uh
it's taken into the cell by a small
bubble-like structure called an endoome.
It travels through the cytoplasm to the
nucleus of the cell which is the control
center of the cell which is where all of
all of our DNA normally lives.
Now two different different gene
therapies approach this differently. You
can have some gene therapies that will
for some viruses will insert
uh insert the genetic material into the
person's genome.
The AAV
forms delivers the genetic material and
that genetic material forms this small
circular st shape called an epiome and
it lives outside of your own DNA. So it
doesn't integrate into the the the
person's DNA. There are pros and cons
associated with both.
In terms of the trans gene, the elements
that we use resemble our our own
endogenous DNA. So we have the promoter
and that can be um natural or synthetic.
It can be cell specific or it can be ubi
ubiquitous so expressed everywhere. Then
you have the therapeutic trans gene. And
then you have regulatory elements that
enable you to modulate up and down where
and when the gene is expressed.
So historically, most gene therapies
have been used to deliver the the
missing protein um that causes the
disease. So that's called gene
replacement therapy.
But we can do much more than just
replace proteins.
So
these are all again fairly broad
categories. But we have we are have the
ability now to add functional copies,
regulate or silence gene to prevent
disease.
Um and really what what's the the the
approach we use depends on the outcomes
that you need and the fundamental basis
of the disease which is why it's really
important that we understand the
underlying herpathology and the
neurobiological processes of a disease.
So gene replacement is where we give a
gene and it um and it essentially
produces a new protein.
Gene regulation is where we deliver
transcription factors that adjust gene
activity by using these regulatory
elements. So this is the approach taken
uh by encoded for our program ETX 101
for dy syndrome which is a haplo
insufficiency meaning only one copy of
the gene works. So we deliver
transcription factors that bind to the
functional copy and turn up that missing
copy that that extra copy to produce
more protein.
Gene silencing essentially allows us to
um to stop the stop the um translation
of toxic proteins that cause harm.
So with um with things like microRNAs,
small interfering RNAs, short hairpin
RNAs, essentially we um we deliver we
deliver these
RNAs that then bind to the messenger RNA
and stop that messenger RNA being read
and turned into protein. So, think of it
back to the assembly guide uh which the
workers need to be able to read and
produce the the product and these gi
these gene silencing technologies take a
black pen and scribble all over the
assembly guide so nobody can read it. Um
so that so that there is no product
produced.
And then gene editing is a little bit
different in that we use uh what we call
molecular scissors to go and edit the
person's DNA directly. So Michael talked
this morning about crisper and that
would be a gene editing technology.
So essentially we have a range of
different mechanisms that we can use
based off the disease that let us target
different conditions with customized
designs.
One of the important things about gene
therapies is that
once you give it, we hope that it lasts
forever and you can't take it away. That
means development of gene therapies is
complex and it involves a lot of
interdependent factors.
So it's absolutely critical that we
understand the disease biology so we can
design tools that address the underlying
cause of the disease.
As we've already heard, animal models
are really really important not only to
test safety but also so that we can
actually determine potentially
therapeutic doses for human trials.
again because because you we don't think
we can give gene therapy again yet. It's
I'll come to that in a moment. And um
you can't take it away. You want all of
the doses that you give in human trials
to be potentially efficacious based off
the work that you do in animal models.
So that animal research is absolutely
critical and has to be done very very
thoughtfully before you start humans.
We need a robust understanding of the
natural history of the disease. Uh we
need to again understand what are the
signs and the symptoms that we are
trying to address. Uh we need to be able
to then you understand what is
meaningful to the families and what do
we think that we can um change over the
time course of or time course of a
clinical trial so that we can um
so that we can select the right end
points for the clinical trial.
So the work that the angel community's
already been doing in this regard to to
to you know track and understand the
natural history is incredibly helpful
for people coming in to develop drugs.
Clinical trials for gene therapies are
complex. Um they
they are long and they because we are
trying to again address the range and
signs and symptoms. It means that we're
assessing a lot and families
participating you are really taking
taking a big step in participating it
it's a huge ask
typically speaking you know the the
primary end point so the first time
point at which you you assess is the
drug working is usually over the course
of about a year and then the FDA usually
requires that we follow patients for
five years and then maybe up to 15
years. So again, participating is a huge
commitment for families.
Regulatory processes are a little bit
different um to to traditional small
molecules. Um I won't go into that here.
Um and if you think about, you know, the
difference between gene therapy trials
versus say those four anti-seizure
medications that are just looking at
seizure reduction um and they're just
over, you know, three or four months. Um
it's really important to have patient
involvement in selecting the meaningful
end point and what an appropriate risk
benefit the the patient community is
willing to willing to tolerate. So it's
really important to get your feedback
when we're designing these trials.
And then given the single um the single
administration
uh aspect of gene therapy,
our reimbursement systems really aren't
set up to allow that. Um insurance
doesn't really know how to do that. So
we really do need to be working with
payers to evolve the commercial
paradigms so that we can make sure that
that patients are able to access these
therapies once they have regulatory
approval. That's a whole whole different
topic and I I won't go into that here.
Another thing just to be aware of and is
that we still don't really know the
optimal time for treatment in CNS
disorders. There is some evidence that
earlier treatment may lead to better
outcomes. It's going to be different on
for different disorders and a lot more
research is needed. But if you look at
the figure here, um, do I have No, I
can't do that. Uh, how do I go back?
Okay. If you look at the figure here on
there's a dotted line on the left just
coming up just under the word cognitive
that shows essentially neurotypical
development.
So unaffected children in a disorder
called Sanfalippo syndrome.
There is a red line there uh which shows
the natural history of children who did
not receive a treatment. And what this
figure really shows is that um there is
a child who was treated at about one
year of age and after two and a half
years of treatment that child is still
on the neurotypical trajectory.
Children treated around two years of age
are tracking also in that neurotypical
range. And then children who are treated
older than that don't have the same
outcomes.
Now, we don't expect this to be binary.
We still expect that older patients will
still be able to derive benefit. We just
don't know how long it's going to take
uh and and
we don't know how much. So when you're
testing a new therapy, you need to be
sure that the effect you are seeing or
not seeing is as a result of the
therapy.
That means that often in these
neurodedevelopmental disorders, we have
to start young because the youngest
patients are the ones that we anticipate
should be able to have the fastest
responses over the time course of a
clinical trial. Um
and then once we've demonstrated that
the drug works in those patients, then
we can go into older patients to study
that. It turns the sort of the
traditional drug development paradigm on
its head because normally you start in
adults and you work younger for new but
for neurodedevelopmental disorders where
you're again trying to trying to address
the whole range of signs and symptoms of
the disease. You need to start younger
and then move older. But a lot more work
is needed to be done on this to really
understand um what you know what what
this means for each individual disorder.
So when delivering anything to the
immune system, the immune system reacts.
Um and this is the same for gene
therapy. We want to be sure that
um that we're controlling any immune
response to to that that foreign
material that's being introduced into
the body. So there sort of three
different buckets that we think about
because these viruses naturally occur.
Some people may have been exposed to the
wild type virus in in the years before
gene therapy. So those patients might
have pre-existing immunity which if you
then administer the gene therapy the
immune system may essentially im mount a
response and to stop it from delivering
the the therapy.
Uh there's also innate immunity. So
immediately uh in the hours after gene
therapy the immune system again may see
this virus and mount an immune response
against it. And then you have adaptive
immunity which can happen in the days or
weeks after gene therapy.
where the immune system can develop
stronger responses like antibodies or
te- cells that can attack either the
gene therapy or even the treated cells.
To prevent this, we test for antibodies
before we uh give treatment. And
sometimes patients who already have an
immune response may be excluded
especially for the early stage trials
again where we're trying to figure out
does the thing does the gene therapy
work or not. We also use medicines
called immunosuppressions to calm the
immune response before and after. And
then we monitor patients very carefully
uh over time to manage any potential
immune responses.
So there are important considerations
many of which I've already touched upon
here. Understanding the disease symptoms
and progression is critical. Um and
again all the work you've done is is
really helping helping develop therapies
because we understand Angelman syndrome.
Uh there are delivery channels
challenges in hard-to-reach tissues. So
again you know if you want to go into
the CNS you may need invasive routes of
administration.
uh as uh as one of the speakers already
mentioned this morning, pre-clinical
studies are vitally important, but
animals are not humans and they don't
always predict what happens in humans.
So, we have to be very thoughtful and
very and very careful before and as we
start uh human studies.
We are delivering billions of viral
particles to patients. Uh and so very
high doses of this may cause side
effects in the liver. So again we need
to be very careful um and and these
immune responses may limit future dosing
um or repeat administrations which means
you need to be um we need to approach
clinical trials a little differently
because we can't do traditional dose
finding studies
and everything given everything I just
said you know long-term follow-up is
needed this is still a nent field we are
you know I' I've been doing this for uh
over a decade now um and we have a lot
more experience
in that than when I started, but it's
still you we're still learning a lot and
so following people over time is going
to be really important. But I don't want
to sound overly negative. Uh the data
that is coming out is incredibly
exciting. Um a lot of the approved gene
therapies show a very favorable risk
benefit and there is a lot of potential
now for for conditions that were once
thought untreatable.
On my last slide, I just, you know,
given everything I've just said, um, you
development of gene therapies really
does take a village. Uh, you know, in
sponsors and families and clinicians and
regulators and pairs all really need to
be working very closely together to help
advance these these therapies forward.
Thank you for your time and attention
and happy to take any questions.
Thank you. Welcome. Great.
>> Okay, I don't think we have time for
questions.
>> Thank you very much. Um, so ultimately I
think you know what we learned today is
that we start with things in a dish. We
move to things in animal testing. We
understand what we're putting into these
drugs in order to try to replace UB3A
and how we may want to get it there.
Whether that's through a virus, whether
that's through a lipid particle, whether
that's through some type of editing
carrier. um all different ways that
we're going to talk about over the next
couple days. But I think what's also
important to realize is that I I know a
lot of people just heard that talk and
are super excited, but also heard that
um in certain examples of certain gene
therapies that are having a profound
impact on patients. Almost all of the
gene therapies where there's data which
Emma showed is in neurodeenerative
disorders showing that if you address a
neurodeenerative disorder before there
are symptoms you can you can tra on a
normal neurodedevelopmental trajectory
in a neurodedevelopmental disorder like
Angelmen that is not degenerative
where we are on that trajectory and
where we intervene and where we're going
to see the greatest benefit is
completely unknown.
What the animal models actually show if
we want to believe anything is that it
doesn't matter what age you actually
intervene and you'll see that over the
course of the next two days. You can see
profound benefit at different ages.
Similar whether it's adolescent, adult
or newborn in some therapeutics where
you can really distribute well to the
brain. And so it's really important that
we don't get deflated. If we're not two
years old, we're not going to see
benefit. That's not what she was saying.
She was just showing an example in a
degenerative disorder in which you can
not even see a symptom if you treat
early enough before there's degeneration
of the brain. But I want to acknowledge
that in Angelmen, for the example we
have over the next couple days, we we
don't have degener degeneration of the
brain, but we want to address the
symptoms as early as possible so our
kids don't have to live a long period of
time with the symptoms of Angelmen
syndrome. And that's our ultimate goal.
So, I just want to make that super