I'm going to open the floor to questions
and and I'm going to take most of them
and I want you guys to really find the
speakers in the break and and throughout
the course of the next two days to ask
them your questions. Families in this
room should not be scared to approach
anybody else in this room. This is your
day. The next two days is yours. You
should go and talk to everybody. You
should engage and you should ask any
question you have. Um, but I am happy to
just take some questions that you might
be thinking about and try to address
them in a way that's pertinent to you
and your family. So, if we want to ask
any questions, otherwise we can go ahead
and and start the break.
>> I can't There's a question over there. I
can't see anything up here. So, if there
are runners, it would be really great if
you guys can just go and find those
people.
Hello. Thank you. Um, I have a couple of
questions for uh the John Hopkins uh set
um who explain very well the functions
of UB3A protein sorry DAC.
Um so uh I have the first question is uh
if there's um any protein accumulation
um documented
uh wherever the UB3
UB3A is lacking or um uh mutated
and also um why they do explain the
imprinting of UB3. 3A in the brain.
>> If I think I understood your question
and I apologize there's an echo. Um so
it was a little bit hard for me to
understand what you were saying but I
think what you're asking for is is there
accumulation of UB3 protein
>> no of other protein since the
uh UB3 is not binding its target. Um um
is there any protein accumulation
documented in the brain whenever uh the
UB3A is non functioning
other protein?
>> Right. Yes. Yes. So so because U3
targets thousands of other proteins
and if it's not targeting and and
tagging it to be degraded and in some
instances upregulated to not be
degraded. So there's a balance of
homeostasis.
So there's a balance where there's
targeting of a protein to say you should
be trash and there's targeting of
protein that says you should stick
around for a longer period of time. And
when you don't have that targeting
meaning the tag keep and throw, it's
completely unbalanced. So there are many
proteins that there are too many of them
and there are many proteins where there
are not enough of them. So replacing
certain proteins could be helpful or
targeting the breakdown of certain
proteins can be helpful. And that's why
when you think about all of the
downstream effects of the function of
UV3A,
there's hundreds if not thousands of
them
>> in the neurons specifically, but
probably in other cells of the body as
well. But we know in other cells of the
body, we have the paternal copy that's
being read because it's only silenced in
neurons. Yeah.
>> So it's mostly a neuronal disorder. And
when you look at the brains of animals
and humans actually for deceased brains,
when you look at the brains after and
before therapy and you can look at what
we call proteomics,
which is what is the downstream effect
and that signature, that signature is
very different in Angelmen syndrome
compared to neurotypical
and it's thousands of proteins that are
either upregulated or inappropriately
downregulated. So um can we say that
maybe that's why we don't see a
neurodeeneration
in a angelman syndrome patient?
>> Probably the reason we don't see
neurodeeneration is because the
imbalance of proteins that's there are
not degenerative proteins. So when you
think about something like ALS right the
proteins that are you know accumulating
are ultimately killing neurons
when you look at Alzheimer's disease the
plaques that are being deposited are
killing neurons alysisal storage disease
that it's resulting in not degrading
certain types of fats that are
accumulating in cells that cause cell
death. There are no proteins that we
know of in Angelmen syndrome that cause
cell death when they're upregulated or
downregulated. Which is why
anatomically, if you look at the MRI of
an adult with Angelmen syndrome, it
looks relatively normal. There may be
some delay in myelin depositing, but the
neurons themselves look anatomically
normal. And when you see a report on an
MRI, it's generally normal compared to
what you might see with MPS Sanfalippo
that was just shown or what you would
see potentially with Alzheimer's or ALS
or something like that.
>> Thank you.
>> Sure. Next question.
>> Okay.
Yeah, just a clarifying question. Oh,
the echo is bad.
>> It's worse for me.
>> Okay. Um, regarding Dr. James
presentation, um, there was a comment
that AAV can't be used with UB3A
because of its size. And so just just
wondering what vectors could be used in
current or future trials.
>> That's a great that's a great question.
So most proteins or many proteins are
very large and there's a or genes are
very large and there's a capacity to a
vector like a generally it can hold only
a certain amount of genetic material.
For Angelmen, the gene can actually fit
in the vector, but the gene itself has
multiple isoforms, meaning that there's
a when you make UV3, it's enormous, but
there's certain pieces of it that are
this big or this big or this big. And
the function of those have been tested
in these models to show that one isoform
called isoform one for the human UB3A
construct is actually the smaller one.
and it has most of the function. So when
we give back isoform one, we see full
rescue of phenotype in the animal model.
When we give back isoform 2, we don't
see great rescue of the phenotype and
actually with too much of it, you can
see toxicity. So you don't want to give
back too much isoform 2 and isopform 3
practically doesn't exist. So basically
what we have shown is that with just
isoform one, you can correct the
symptoms of Angelmen syndrome. So there
are multiple programs using AEV for
Angelmen syndrome with gene delivery and
they're using isoform one because it
does fit and some people are actually
mixing isoform one and two in a um a
shorter form where it together does fit.
Um so that's something that's in
discovery at the University of North
Carolina.
Any other questions?
>> Is there another question?
>> Okay, why don't we go for a break?
Everyone chitchat. Go have some coffee
and we'll be back here at