I'm excited to really kick off with the
roadmap to a cure. Um, firstly, I want
to start by thanking all of our amazing
sponsors for making yesterday, today,
and tomorrow possible for all of our
families to be here. A tremendous amount
of the support to get families here
through scholarships has been because of
our sponsors, particularly Mattiey's
Mission. So, I want to thank Mattiey's
mission for really bringing families
here and supporting that effort. People
have come up to me.
People have come up to me just so
grateful for the opportunity to sit in
this room and of course it's our
obligation for you to be in this room,
but really we couldn't do it without the
support of our sponsors. Um we you
you'll see sponsorship um titles around
the room and around the event, but
please thank the sponsors. We couldn't
get this done without them. This is
incredibly expensive, but it's a weekend
that all of the families deserve. So,
thank you. Um in addition, I want to
thank our team, uh the fast team,
particularly Laura. Uh Laura Faliano has
unbelievable ability to run a meeting.
And just so you know, like the heavy
lift of this has really been on Laura.
And so Laura, I don't know where you are
because I can't see anything, but um I
would like to acknowledge you if you're
here. So please stand if you are. And
she's probably back there. And if she's
not, let's just clap for Laura because
Laura has been amazing. Thank you,
Laura. We love you deeply. Um and
lastly, I would like everyone in the
room to raise their hand if they are a
family member.
All right. So, everyone look around.
These are our family members. Raise your
hand if you're a research scientist.
Raise your hand if you're an industry
member.
Awesome. So what you can see is that we
have every stakeholder in the room,
mostly families, but also researchers
and industry that's here to learn from
us and learn from you. And it's really
important that we share our story. And
so engage and talk and learn and really
learn about what these people are doing
here. and to industry and researchers
learn about why parents are here and
they care deeply for advancing therapies
for Angelmen syndrome. So, as most of
you know, um my name is Allison Brent
and I serve as the chief science officer
for FAST. Um I have a couple of roles
that I play. I'm also the co-director um
with my co-patriot Jennifer Panagulius
who you'll meet shortly who um for the
Angelmen Syndrome Biomarker and Outcome
Measure Consortium. And we're going to
go over later today the learnings from
that closed door meeting that we had
yesterday which I hope was incredibly
successful. I also stood on the stage a
lot of the time so I couldn't tell if
people enjoyed it but I certainly
enjoyed it so I hope everybody else did
as well. So we'll share the learnings
from that meeting yesterday. Um I also
am the co-director of the international
Angelman Syndrome Research Council which
is a um a pre-ompetitive collaborative
consortium where we are leading a group
of basically um experts around the world
that are not only working in Angelmen
syndrome but other neurodedevelopmental
disorders in order to learn and to fill
our gaps and understand our gap
analysis. Um, and I am the chief
development officer of the accelerator
that Fast started called AS2 Bio, which
we'll talk a little bit about today. And
most importantly, I am the mother to
three beautiful little girls. And this
is Quincy. She is 11 years old and she
lives with Angelmen syndrome.
Here are my disclosures.
So, we heard a lot about the basics, but
now I'm going to talk about the basics
of Angelmen syndrome and hopefully
everything you learned in the last
session will prepare you and give you
the tools to understand everything that
I'm going to say as well. So, Angelman
syndrome
involves a single gene on a single
chromosome. And as you learned, there
are 46 chromosomes in most of our cells.
23 pairs. one that comes from mom or
maternal and then one that comes from
dad or paternal
and it's caused by a severe reduction in
a single gene that is called ub3a
and that gene sits on the 15th
chromosome.
It affects approximately 1 in 12 to
15,000 people which could be 500,000
people in the world
and it's usually random. None of us or
very few of us are carriers for this.
There are some but very few are carriers
for this. It happens randomly in the egg
usually before fertilization.
So this happened likely in mom's egg
when she was being developed in her
mother's body, which means that this is
before we were even born that this egg
developed this mutation, a deletion or a
a changing of the letters of the gene.
Each chromosome, as you learned, is made
up of tons of genes, over 20,000 genes
per chromosome. And it codes for
different proteins in the body. So,
every gene that causes disease usually
is associated with some protein that's
not being made at all or it's not being
made well and ultimately results in a
change of function. So, we learned that
this morning, but hopefully we can
relate this to Angelman syndrome. And
so, let's blow that up a little bit.
Okay, here's the 15th chromosome.
And our cells have one copy from mom and
one copy from dad. And if we make that
into a schematic, what you can see is
that in neurons only,
the copy from dad in me, in you, and in
our children is silenced. It's silenced
by something called a long non-oding
RNA. Complicated. You may see it as UB3A
anti-sense
or the stop.
It stops the expression of the UB3 gene
in the neurons on the father's copy of
the gene.
But with Angelman syndrome, the mother's
copy is not being read
in all of the cells.
In you and I, our mother's copy is being
read in the neurons. The father's copy
is silent in the neurons. And we have
normal function. Well, you can make that
decision. Somewhat normal function.
But
in our kids with Angelmen, the mother's
copy is generally not being read or it's
deleted. And therefore, they don't have
expression of the UB3 gene resulting, as
you learned from Emma, the UB3 protein.
Because the father's copy is silent, the
mother's copy is gone. Therefore,
they're null. the neurons have nothing.
But in the rest of the body, the
father's copy is not silent. So they're
expressing the gene and therefore it's
only a disorder of neurons.
So this can happen in various different
ways which we're going to hear more
about later, but some and the most
common way is a deletion of a segment of
the mother's copy of that gene.
The next most common way is a mutation
within the UB3 gene, meaning a letter is
misspelled or a little piece is missing
or a little piece is added, making the
gene not read well, which makes them not
make a protein.
In a small proportion, the silencing of
the father's copy is also silenced on
the mother's copy. And that's an
imprinting center defect or UPD where
instead of a mother's copy and a
father's copy, there happens to be two
father's copies. And that means they're
both silent. Again, the result being a
lack of expression of UB3A in neurons.
And then there's one group, a very small
proportion of the population that has
something called mosaicism.
And that is an incredibly rare group,
but that group ultimately is a key to a
lot of information that we'll talk
about. And what that means is that it
didn't happen at the egg stage,
but the mutation or whatever went wrong
happened after the egg and the sperm
fertilized in the embryo. So it happened
very early. But what happens is that
most of the cells of the body are not
expressing maternal UB3A but some of
them are and we'll talk about that.
So the function I don't need to tell you
now which is wonderful because you've
just learned that right EV3 is an enzyme
the the E3 liase it tags proteins for
degradation or to keep them around for
longer and by doing that it allows for
neurons all of those proteins being
cleaned up in that space allows for
neurons to communicate well and if you
have too many of one protein or not
enough of another protein the neurons
are not going to communicate very well.
And that results in the symptoms of
Angelmen syndrome. And th that cleanup
and that that what we call homeostasis
is required for normal neuron function
in the brain. And our neurons are what
allow our brain to think, allow our
muscles to move, allow us to perform all
of the functions that we do. So this is
called, you may hear the word
synaptopathy.
It's it's called that because the
communication between two neurons is
what is abnormal. And so the syninnapse
is that junction where one neuron is
talking to another neuron. And those two
neurons need to speak because the second
neuron talks to our muscles. And if we
can't get the message from the first
neuron to our muscles, how are we going
to walk? How are we going to talk?
How are we going to rest, sleep?
All of our functions are intrinsic and
depend upon neuronal communication. And
that is disturbed when you don't have
normal function at that area, the
syninnapse,
and it results in the symptoms of
Angelmen. If we can't communicate one
neuron to our muscle to say when I take
a step I'm going to activate this leg
and relax this leg and now I'm going to
activate this leg and relax that leg.
That's communication. And if we can't do
that quickly as the neurons are firing
in milliseconds, micros secondsonds,
then how are we going to coordinate
thousands of muscles in our face, our
tongue, and our voice box to say a
single word?
That's all communication of nerves to
muscles. So you can imagine how if you
don't have that communication, you have
this buildup of proteins in that space.
Things are going to seem very foggy.
Things are going to be very slow and
things are not going to be able to
communicate at a pace in which normal
function can happen and that results in
the symptoms of Angelmen syndrome.
One thing I'd like to highlight is that
a majority of the population has a
genotype of deletion.
Deletion means an entire segment, not
just the gene, has been deleted. Now,
there is something called an introgenic
deletion, meaning there's only a
deletion within the gene. And we we
bucket that with mutation because it's
only affecting the UB3 gene. And I know
a parent in the community had a question
about that.
The deletion generally involves a big
segment of the chromosome. So if we blow
that out, here's the UB3A gene. Here's
the big segment that's been deleted.
So this could be like six million base
pairs of DNA. Imagine that. six million
base pairs of DNA that have just been
deleted, gone. Where a mutation might be
one base pair of DNA that's the wrong
letter.
That's the difference between a deletion
and a mutation. So it's important we
understand that because with deletion we
have all of these genes that are sitting
around UB3A that are missing that may
have some function that contribute to
why individuals with a deletion of
Angelmen syndrome may be a little bit
more symptomatic
than those with a mutation or UPD or ICD
where they're not missing these other
genes. Well, let's talk about those
other genes a little bit.
There are the GABA genes that we hear
about. All of these genes may contribute
to seizures, to sleep, to motor
function. And so, we don't want to
forget about those genes because as
we've moved toward addressing replacing
UB3A,
we really need to move toward thinking
about addressing these other genes
outside of UB3A.
And when we think about those genes, we
want to dig into the literature and say
which of them actually have clinical
function. Right? Our kids are missing
half of their copies of those extra
genes. They're fully missing UB3A in
neurons, but those other genes are not
silenced. So they're being expressed on
the father's copy. They're just not
being expressed on the mother's copy. So
if that's the case, we call that haplo
insufficiency or half of the expression
that they might need. So if we look at
those genes and we look into the
literature of the clinical signs
associated with those extra genes, what
we learn is not all of them likely are
related to disease.
The GABA genes, those two GABA genes do
seem to have some individuals that only
have mutations or loss of function of
one copy of those genes in which they
have some clinical symptoms. Those
symptoms might be associated with
seizures, some intellectual disability,
and maybe even some learning
disabilities.
Sleep may be impacted. So you can see
the overlap of the Angelman syndrome
symptoms and those genes. And so we
don't want to forget about them. But the
the two genes that rise to the top is
GABA B3 and GABA G3.
So we need to think about can we correct
those as well.
So with all of that in mind, UB3 alone
without even thinking about those extra
genes results in all of the symptoms we
live with. And just to educate those who
don't live with Angelmen syndrome,
because I do not need to educate those
of us that do, it is associated with a
universal lack of speech, significant
sleep disturbance,
a taxian incoordination where some
individuals don't even walk,
impulsive and hyperactive behaviors.
Sometimes that can lead to aggression
and frustration,
an inability to live an independent
life,
and all of the activities of daily
living that are tremendously impacted.
But what I don't want anyone to forget
is the impact it has on us parents.
Inability to maintain employment,
loss of sleep, anxiety, social
isolation,
fatigue, chronic fatigue. Imagine
sleeping 3 to four hours a night. Not
just during the newborn years, but for
25, 35, 45, 55 years. Because our kids
are not degenerative and they live a
normal length of life. We believe just
not a normal quality of life. And who is
impacted by their lack of sleep? Of
course, they are. But what about every
caregiver that has to take care of them
for the rest of their life? That is
profoundly impactful to families. So,
I'm speaking to the drug developers in
the room. When we think about the
symptoms we're addressing, we cannot
forget about the impact that these
symptoms have on families. And that is
what meaningful is. How can we address
the symptoms of this disorder that are
meaningful to families?
It's not always only to the child or to
the adult that's living with Angelman
syndrome.
So, I mentioned mosaicism and I'm going
to go back to that because anybody in
this room that has a child with
mosaicism, I just want to thank you
because you certainly when we got our
diagnosis saved my life.
When I learned the capacity of
individuals
that are expressing
one to five% of maternal UB3A in their
cells, meaning 99 to 95%
is gone. They only have 1 to 5%.
Those individuals
may have some speech.
They don't have seizures and they walk
beautifully.
That's a different child to the 99% of
us where our kids live with no maternal
UB3A.
What does that tell me? 20%
they can speak in sentences potentially
and 40% may not even be diagnosed
because they are mistaken as
neurotypical. Imagine that. Imagine
that. And what that tells me as a doctor
is that we don't need a lot to make a
huge difference.
Of course, I want 40% or more because I
want a neurotypical child. We all do
or many of us do. But 1 to 5% is a
quality of life improvement that I dream
about
and I think most of us do. And we
learned that because of the mosaic
children and adults. And so for that,
I'm grateful. But it allowed us to think
about drug development in a little bit
of a different way.
So how are we going to get there? How
are we going to address it? So this is
the road map. Okay. We used to have four
pillars and I'm going to explain the
five pillars, but your book has
everything in there about the pillars
and the why. So we can replace the
missing UB3 gene or protein
pillar one. We can unsilence the
paternal alil
pillar two.
By unsilencing it, we will allow it to
be read in neurons, which is essentially
similar to replacing it, but it's a
different strategy on how we think about
the molecular way to address that.
Pillar three is thinking about the genes
outside of UB3A for the deletion for UPD
and ICD because they all have different
genes that are probably contributing to
the phenotype and those genotypes that
are different than mutation.
Pillar four, everything we learned about
from Dr. Margolus about the downstream
targets. How do the downstream targets
affect
the function of the syninnapse and the
neurons and can we hit those targets in
a way that could benefit individuals
with Angelmen syndrome? And then
finally, pillar five is all the things
we need to do to set up and be prepared
for clinical trials in Angelmen
syndrome.
So
this is just a a gateway into everybody
working on this pillar one AAV gene
replacement therapy.
Lentivirus hematopoetic stem cell gene
therapy. I know these words sound really
big and scary, but we're going to go
through them one at a time. Enzyme
replacement therapy. All of those are to
replace the UB3A gene that is missing.
Pillar one. Pillar two, stop the stop.
Unsilence the father's copy of that
gene.
We can do that with an anti-sense
olonucleotide or ASO. It's all in your
glossery. Don't be overwhelmed. Just
listen and absorb. It's all in there.
You're going to be hit by this time and
time again over the next two days. I
promise you, you're going to walk out of
here and you're going to understand it.
Artificial transcription factors,
crisper gene editing,
and mirna
or sirna.
All of those technologies can unsilence
the father's copy of that gene.
How are we going to deal with those
genes outside of UB3A?
We're going to hear a talk later this
afternoon about how we can crisper
activate and turn up the notch of those
hapluins sufficient genes to increase
their expression on the father's copy in
which they are read because it's not
UB3A and we can increase that expression
downstream targeting we have small
molecules like drugs from neurin we're
going to hear a lecture from helix about
some drugs they're working on from RO
and from Brown University
and then critically preparing for
clinical trials which are all the ways
in which we have the models that we've
developed the endpoints and the
biomarkers that we're working so heavily
on and ensuring we have policy and
regulatory strategy so that the
regulators hear what we're doing and
help to support it.
So that's another way of looking at it
which is in your your program is those
five pillars maternal replacement
unsilencing dad
adjacent genes
downstream targets. Let's get prepared
to accelerate toward human application.
Let's start with pillar one.
That's a neuron and we need to get UB3A
into that neuron because it's missing.
And there are a couple of ways that we
can do that. One being with AAV gene
replacement therapy where we take a
virus which is a healthy virus where the
bad parts have been taken out of it and
we deposit the UB3 gene inside that
virus.
That virus is then injected into the
fluid around the brain, whether that's
through the fluid at the base of the
skull or the fluid through the brain
into the ventricle.
Or we're going to hear a talk tomorrow
about the potential to actually inject
it in the veins and the virus can cross
the bloodb brain barrier, go from the
veins to the brain. That would be
amazing and we'll talk about that. But
that's really something that doesn't
have yet that path in humans. We don't
have that long track record yet for that
very new and very exciting technology.
We'll talk more about that as well.
We can do it a different way. We can
take cells, as Emma showed you, outside
the body, our own blood cells.
We can put the UB3 gene into those blood
cells in a dish.
Then we can put them back into the body
if we make a little space for them in
our bone marrow for them to deposit and
create a factory in our bone marrow to
then release the cells out of the bone
marrow, the blood cells. They're called
blood stem cells.
And those blood stem cells cross the
bloodb brain barrier, go into the brain,
distribute throughout the brain,
touching almost every neuron, and
release UB3A
to get into those neurons to be read for
that protein to function. So that's
called hematopoetic
stem cell gene therapy. And then enzyme
replacement therapy. What if we can take
the UB3 protein and just put it into the
brain? So, we're going to hear about
that as well.
So, gene replacement therapy. You don't
need to read this slide because I'm just
going to summarize it for you. But what
I want you to see is that so much work
and time and money has gone into this
because of you. You have funded all of
these experiments and these are animal
experiments. These are mouse experiments
and we also have now monkey experiments
showing that if you replace the UB3A
gene, you can correct the behaviors of
the mouse that may be somewhat
translational to people. And we can do
that with AAV gene replacement therapy.
So what you can see is that the graphs
you're going to see high, low, high,
right? when you see correction to wild
type or normal which Dr. Samako
explained to us wild type is the normal
mouse or the neurotypical mouse. If we
can get back toward neurotypical and
away from Angelman syndrome, we are
improving the behaviors of these mice
with these technologies. And so this
gene therapy on the top is the AAV, at
the bottom is the HSC, but you don't
really care about that. I think you care
a little bit more about this where let's
just look at the reality of it. Right?
So this is a program the hematopoetic
stem cell gene replacement therapy where
you can see a mouse on the left with
Angelman syndrome
and that mouse is having a hard time.
He can't keep up. He's hitting his back
legs. He's maintained in this system but
he's really falling behind in a single
mouse after gene replacement therapy
using hematopetic stem cells. Look at
that same mouse.
Doesn't take a scientist to look at that
and say, "Well, hell, can you do that to
my daughter? I'd like her to walk like
that." So, you can see the benefit of
these animal models to show us the
possibility of improving gate, for
example.
One thing about this program, which
we've been funding since 2016, is that
it used something called an MNDU3
promoter. Well, you don't care about
that. And Dr. Kon is going to talk to us
about that tomorrow. He's our keynote in
the morning and I really encourage you
to come and listen to this talk because
it's really important for you to
understand this. But we had to change
this promoter because this promoter was
associated with some safety challenges
in the clinic in humans with other
programs not in Angelmen syndrome. So
before we went to Angelman syndrome, we
said we're not going to use the
promiscuous promoter that might have
risk. We're going to find promoters that
have 15 or 20 years of experience where
we can feel the safety track record is
stronger. So, let's see what can we do
with the new promoters. Well, I want you
to look at the top left, which is a wild
type or neurotypical mouse. I'm going to
have you look at the top right, which is
an Angelman mouse, and the bottom left
and the bottom right are two new
promoters that we have that have a
better safety track record than the
prior promoter that was done in that
early work. So, look here, top left, top
right, bottom left, bottom right. You
could see the wild type mouse is getting
to the end with no trouble. Promoter one
and promoter two are having a race and
Angelmen untreated is having a really
hard time.
Doesn't take a scientist to look at that
and say that's different.
We've corrected the balance and motor
function of that mouse, that single
mouse. When you see profound effect like
that, it gets you really excited that
there's the possibility
of this type of therapy improving the
symptoms of Angelman syndrome.
What gets me more excited than that as a
as someone who understands the research
is to say, okay, Angelman's at the top.
Look at UB3A, which is the third column
where there's no green.
Neurotypical, you see green, the wild
type mouse. Promoter one and promoter 2,
I think I see green. Well, the green is
UB3A.
Well, hold on. Let's dive in a little
bit more. I see a lot of UB3A. And it
looks like the red are the neurons and
the UB3A is in the neurons. All right,
let's dig in a little bit more. Wow,
there's a lot of UB3 in those neurons.
And that's why you can see the behavior
of those mice gets so much better
because this is a mouse. And remember, a
mouse is not a human. And we don't know
how this will translate to humans. But
what we do know is that I call this the
field of puppies
because that's what it looks like. And
that's very exciting to see because with
most therapies, we don't see that. And
so that's an exciting program all
because of you and your funding to help
support it.
Let's move to pillar two. Pillar two is
on silencing the father's copy of the
gene. You could do that like I said with
anti-sense, oligos, zinc, fingers,
mirna, shrna, sirna, crisper. So many
things. I can roll these terms off my
tongue because you guys now know what
they are thanks to the education that
you got this morning. Let's unsilence
that father's copy. Well, how do we do
that? And how does that look in the
animal models? ASOS can rescue phenotype
in the animal model. In an adult, there
was some of the phenotype that was
corrected.
So, we have optimism that in older
animals, maybe we can see benefit. And
that was enough for us to be able to
push that through to human application,
which we'll talk about, which is
incredibly exciting. Zinc fingers, we
were able to see that we can unsilence
the father's copy, and you could see the
brown at the top, no brown in the
middle, and the brown at the bottom.
What does that mean? UB3A has been
restored into the neurons of the brain.
That's exciting. That's a positive
result. And then it also corrected the
behaviors in the mouse model of Angelmen
syndrome. So super exciting. What about
crisper gene editing? Same thing. These
slides don't mean anything to you in
terms of you see a high black bar, you
see a very low white bar, and you see an
in between gray bar. The in between gray
bar is what was corrected in one
experiment using AAV crisper delivery in
order to deliver the editor to the brain
and and um deliver UB unsilence and
deliver UB3A to those to those neurons.
And then on the right you can see that
there's lots of bars of correcting the
phenotype of UB3A of uh Angelman
syndrome in the mice. But this probably
means a little more to you. And this is
my favorite video. Sorry Shauna. I know
this is your video and I steal it every
time. But it's so important for families
to see. We have the wild type mouse on
the left, the untreated Angelman mouse
in the middle. Oops. And the angelman
treated mouse on the right. What's more
important to me in this video, similar
to the other video for HSSE gene
therapy, is that these are adult mice,
not newborn mice, not neonatal mice, not
mice that are in uterero. These are
adult mice, adolescent mice, teenage
mice that are having benefit after
birth, well after birth in order to
rescue these phenotypes. We don't know
how that will behave in humans. We have
no idea, but we don't know it won't
improve phenotype in humans. And the
only way we're going to know is if we
try. And there's reason to believe based
on what you're going to hear tomorrow
with the ASOS and clinical trials in
both adults, young children, and
adolescence that benefit is being seen
across the board for all individuals
living with Angelman syndrome. And so
that's really optimistic that maybe that
therapeutic window that a lot of people
like to talk about is different for
neurodedevelopmental disorders than it
is for neurodeenerative disorders.
Let's talk about pillar three. Pillar
three we have a program where we are
upregulating
the haplo insufficient genes in the
deletion genotype. We already talked
about that. This is a group out of UCSF.
Um Dr. Dr. Nadavatio is going to talk to
us later today about the program that
we're working with a collaboration
between Yale University, North Carolina
State and University of California, San
Francisco. And this is where we're
upregulating those genes to try to see
if we can have a benefit in improving
the the expression of some of those
genes. And I'm not going to give it
away. I'm going to let him share his
data. But what you can see here is that
we have found constructs for humans that
can increase expression of those genes
that we think really matter, which is
very exciting. And then finally, pillar
four, those downstream targets.
Each one of these downstream targets has
a different path that they are
addressing. And we learned that there
are thousands of paths that we might be
able to address. And each one of these
programs, Nurin UN, uh, Brown
University, BDNF Analog, OPC, OPC
rescue, Aloabat from from RO that
they're going to talk about tomorrow,
and Helix you're going to hear about
later today. All talking about different
constructs that might affect the synapse
and improve function.
And then finally, where does that put
us? It puts us to say, this is
overwhelming. there's a whole lot to be
excited about, but how do we compare
this to that or that to this? I don't
understand. And so, somebody did a a
study where they looked at if we knock
if we replace UB3A at different time
points prenatally at birth in a young
animal, in an adolescent animal, or in
an adult animal. You could see as they
get older, you get less rescue of the
behaviors, which led people to believe
the younger the better. And that that's
logical. But what's interesting is that
if you look at the actual therapeutic
modalities that are translational to
humans and you use the mouse model
that's truly translational to a human, a
mutation model of a mouse where their
UB3 gene is not functional. It's not
expressing on the maternal alil just
like a mutation in humans where the
other model is not that that model. um
and you actually give them AAV gene
therapy, HSC gene therapy, ASOS, crisper
gene editors, or ATFs. Well, wow, that
heat map looks a little different.
A lot less red, a lot more green.
Whether you're an adult, you're an
adolescent,
or you're a newborn, there's phenotypic
rescue at every age. And we have reason
to believe for for functions like
cognition, learning and memory, motor,
um, be apply, you know, behaviors, EEGs,
sleep, biomarkers. If we look at all of
the behaviors that we translate to
humans, there's reason to believe we
might be able to have a benefit in the
lives of all humans at all ages. The
only way we're going to know the answer
to that is when we test these therapies
in humans at all ages. And that's very
exciting. And so I just want to direct
you on your table. There's a journal
that fast started thanks to Ed Weieber
called the Fast Dart Journal. Um so
basically this journal which you guys
can look at is going to be online
available to all in order to be able to
publish analyses, papers, and review
articles for Angelmen Syndrome that
could benefit our learnings. and it's
meant for the scientific community, but
everyone will have access to it because
it's free. And one paper that's in there
that I want you to take a look at that
I'm really, really proud of is this
metaanalysis
where we took all of the studies that
have been done, over 40 studies, put
them together, and said, "How do rodent
models define the potential for human
benefit?" a translational review for
Angelman Syndrome. Rather than people
and scientists picking one paper at a
time and trying to put it together to
make a story, we put it all together
very scientifically to say this is the
story. Look at that heat map.
The reinstatement model contradicts
the gene delivery model which is more
translational to our kids. And so we
really need the data in humans because
there's too much contradiction in
animals to truly understand what any of
that means. But there's possibilities.
There's potential to expect we might see
profound change. We also have a list of
all of the different phenotypes in these
animal models for the research
community. So you can understand what
model is testing what and how that
translates to humans and all of the
models that are out there. As Rodney
Smakco said earlier, we have way too
many models, but 95% of people use one
model and that is Dr. Jiang's model, the
mouse model that is a a imitation of a
mutation, nonfunctional loss of function
mutation from 1998.
And that's what most people use. So we
welcome you to take a look at that. So
now let's move to the fifth pillar,
accelerating and preparing for clinical
trials because those faces are what
matter and that's why we're here.
So the efforts to support clinical trial
readiness have been vast and incredibly
expensive and taken more time than
anybody ever thought. But we're getting
there and we're doing it. One of those
is creating the tools, the animal
models. We have rats and pigs and mice
galore. No more models, please. We're
good. Cell lines. We have every cell
line of every genotype that is available
pre-ompetitively for anybody to use at
Ebisk that any company could have access
to. That's nonproprietary. So nobody's
waiting for academic collaborations and
and and um research grants and
contracts. We made it available for
anybody to use at any time and that was
through a collaboration with Yale
University and Young Way is going to
talk about that this afternoon. Um, and
we have different ways. Organoids that
you saw earlier, these little mini
brains, all of those things you heard,
these are those in vitro tools.
And this is all on our website as well
for the research community that wants to
have access to this.
And then in sync international angelman
syndrome research council which I talked
to you about earlier is a collaboration
we have with the Simons Foundation with
the goal to fill gaps in Angelman
syndrome drug development and other
neurodedevelopmental disorders. So
Angelman syndrome happens to be
relatively far advanced in terms of drug
development activities compared to many
of these other newly diagnosed genetic
neurologic disorders. And it's unfair
for us to take everything we've learned
and live in a silo. So we invite other
neurodedevelopmental disorders to the
table to not only help advance them on
where they are, but they have learnings
that can help advance us on where we
are. Everyone goes at this from a
different angle. And if there's anything
that we can learn from them and they can
learn from us, we advance the field
together. And that's the only way for us
all to make a difference in the lives of
these individuals is to get out of our
silos, work together, and advance the
field. And this has allowed that to
happen in a really great way.
Advocacy Day on the Hill. That's part of
our pillar five. Ryan's going to have a
talk lunch and learn today about this.
his efforts here and him and Jennifer
and Amanda Moore, she's hopefully in the
room somewhere, um have been incredible.
Getting you all out there and fighting
for what's right, fighting for what we
need in order to be able to improve the
lives of our children. That's been
incredible. The externally led patient
focused drug development meeting that
most of you participated in has been an
unbelievable wealth of information that
we've been able to leverage and our
entire day yesterday was around this
concept and Jennifer is going to talk to
you about that in the updated ABOM talk
shortly. So I don't want to give this
away but ultimately what we know is what
impacts our daily lives the most and
what are the priorities in impact for
treatments. And what was so clear for me
out of all of this was that what a
neurotypical family might consider a
minimal change
an Angelman family feels is profound. If
we can improve one domain,
communication,
independent living skills, motor
function,
sleep,
cognition,
we would take it because that any of
those things will improve our children's
lives and ours. And 342
of you made that very clear. We cannot
do that without you. and we are so
grateful for your participation in these
activities.
And then we have a natural history
study. Again, all of the work you
families have put into this and I can't
thank enough the natural history study
teams at Boston Children's and Raidies
and Colorado and, you know, all over
Canada and the United States. These
teams over 19 and a half years has put
together data on over 650 of our kids
over 19 and a half years to understand
the trajectory of developmental change
so that we can compare that to natural
history data. And why is that important?
Well, this is why.
The top is the data presented last year
by Ionis for the ASO clinical trial. And
that study showed because it's open
label, the only thing they can compare
the treatment group to is the natural
history of the disease. How did
individuals not treated do compared to
our individuals that were treated? On
the bottom is the ultragenics data. And
I'm not here to compare one to the
other. All I'm here to show you is that
on the top, black is the change in
natural history over time. Red is the
change in treated Angelmen patients
after an ASO over time in cognition
communication,
the things we care most about. And you
can see the trajectory both with the
data at the top Ionis. The data at the
bottom ultragenics just presented in two
different ways that both of them have
completely changed the trajectory
compared to natural history. If we
didn't have you all participating in
those natural history studies for so
long, there's no way we would have that
data for them to say, I believe there's
a potential treatment effect here. we
are going to move into a phase three
clinical trial which has to be a
controlled study to truly prove if these
drugs are working without that natural
history data. That's just not possible.
And this has been all thanks to our
community, to the natural history team,
to all of our sponsors, and the support
and collaboration of the ABOM, which is
the Angelman Syndrome Biomarker and
Outcome Measure Consortium that was
started as a collaboration between
FastTompetitive
space that Jennifer is going to talk
about. And where we are today in 2025
is that we've went from a $50,000 budget
to having spent over $5.1 million on
this since 2016. We have everybody
around the table, including the FDA, who
is supporting the efforts for
understanding what is a minimal
meaningful change. And Jennifer is going
to talk more about that shortly. What
are the domains that matter? How are we
going to measure them? And how are we
going to put them into clinical trials?
This is so vitally important for us all
to understand why clinical trials are
complicated because we have to measure
all of these things and we're going to
talk a lot more about that tomorrow. But
you have to understand why we have all
of these assessments for our kids
because we have to understand what can
capture change.
This isn't for you to read. It's for you
to understand it's a lot of work. It's a
lot of money. And this is where your
dollars go to support these efforts for
us to be able to get over the finish
line for all of these amazing sponsors
that are sitting in this room to do
everything they can to help our kids and
that's why we're here. And so that is
just a testament to the commitment. So
hopefully what you can see is that every
platform that we're talking about may
benefit different targets.
Each modality may lead to different
amounts of drug or UB3A in the brain in
different places and that may all have a
different clinical effect on our kids.
Different families are going to have
different preferences.
Some people may be very uncomfortable
with a single treatment gene therapy.
Some may be very uncomfortable going
under anesthesia every three months to
get a lumbar puncture to have an ASO
delivered.
Some may only want an oral pill for
their kids. And some may never want to
enter a hospital and will only do a
remote clinical trial because it is too
much energy, effort, and challenge to
get their children to be seen in a
hospital in a clinical trial setting.
So these are all things we have to think
about as an organization to meet the
needs of every one of you. And we work
really hard to try to do that. And what
we also don't know is what if
combination therapy is the best therapy
of all? What if we need an ASO with a
gene therapy? What if we need a small
molecule with an ASO or with a gene
therapy? How are we going to know if we
don't develop all of them and support
those developing all of them? And that
is our role because we do know the more
options we have for our kids, the better
chance of them having something that
leads to a meaningful change in their
lives and ours.
So the standard drug development process
looks like this.
For every 15,000 drugs that are in early
discovery, that are in a dish, that are
in a mouse, that are in an organoid,
one gets approved.
What does that mean? We have to address
all shots on goal. But what does that
cost?
3 to 10 years in pre-clinical, two to
three years in all of the safety studies
required by the FDA, 3 to five years for
an earlyphase study, two to five years
for late phase studies.
Well, let's just do the math.
That's a lot of money for one program.
So what happens is that we wait for
pharmaceutical companies who in our mind
as parents have all the money in the
world. Yes, you industry, we think you
have all the money in the world to
support the development of these
programs. But guess what? They don't. So
they have to make priorities. They have
to think about what has the highest
chance of success because we have to
fund what we believe can be successful
to maintain our pipeline. They can't
take every shot on goal even though they
might want to. So that leaves this area
which we call the valley of death where
we have a promising candidate in a mouse
in a dish and we have to understand how
it behaves in a human.
That valley of death costs somewhere
between 15 to$25 million per program.
Who's going to pay for that?
Industry might not.
Yeah. So far, it's been you guys paying
for that. So, thank you for filling this
valley of death because it's the only
way we can get drugs to patients.
And what I want to share with you is
that 10 years ago, and I know a lot of
you that have been here for year after
year wait for these slides because you
want to see the progress that's being
made. And it brings me more joy than you
know to share these slides. 10 years
ago, we had five programs in early
development and not a single program in
a clinical trial.
Eight years ago, after we had our first
large infusion of funds, thanks to the
generosity of a single family,
we had 15 programs,
two in clinical trials, and multiple
headed toward clinical trials.
Four years ago, 34 programs, three in
clinical trials, multiple headed toward
clinical trials.
And in 2022, the stock market crashed.
Those
34 programs went down to 24 programs.
And that is the shoots and ladders of
drug development. And it happens. And we
had an awakening of the fact that we
can't wait for everyone to do this for
us because they might not.
And when we lost 10 programs, it was
devastating.
But a year ago, we did not stop. We kept
on going and we went from 24 to 27 last
year. And where we are today is we have
30 programs. A lot of these are
undisclosed so they're not going to be
on our website. Just I know Megan Edber
is having a heart attack. They're not on
our website. But I want you to
understand how many people are working
on Angelman Syndrome. Of those 30
programs we have, count them. One, two,
three, four, five, six in clinical
trials. our first gene therapy in a
clinical trial.
We have three in IND enabling studies,
which means they're going to be in
clinical trials. Hopefully, if those
studies come out positive because they
can still fail, they will go into
clinical trials in the near term. And 16
of those are being pushed by your
dollars.
That's important for everyone to
recognize is that your dollars are going
so far but it is not easy to get there.
The the the pillar five is moving
rapidly as well equally well and as we
move forward we have a lot that we
should be proud of. Numerous potential
therapeutic platforms have been invested
in as Angelman syndrome is unique with
many many elegant gene targeted
therapies and opportunities underway.
Promising clinical trial results we have
seen to date which you're going to hear
all about tomorrow. and fast has focused
on identifying the scientific gaps to
accelerate all potential strategies and
support all shots on goal because we
have no idea what the human experiment
is going to show and we have to make
sure that we find something for anybody
who wants a therapy. Traditional drug
development unfortunately has failed
rare disease across the globe, not just
Angelmen syndrome. And that's because
money is drying up, investment is low,
and companies have changing leadership,
and they change their priorities. And
sometimes those priority changes happen
overnight. But we're not going to let it
fail this one because FAST will continue
to dream big because you guys asked us
to.
This is about parents and their dreams.
So this is why fast decided to start the
drug accelerator AS2 bio.
And AS2 Bio is really meant to take
venture philanthropy from patient
advocacy and advance that into a
disruptive accelerator. And that is the
ecosystem of discovery in mice to
discovery in human. And the only way we
could do that is with this team. And
there's so much that has gone into that
through the support of the NIH and Yale
University for the Crisper program,
which you'll hear about tomorrow.
Through the support of UCLA and Don
Conn, who's here and being our keynote
tomorrow, and SERM, the California
Institute of Regenerative Medicine, who
believes in this program and is
advancing us to an IND
through Maverick's bio. And I'd like to
just acknowledge not only did our IND
clear in April that everyone was really
excited about, but yesterday it was
announced that the first patient was
dosed.
And I would like to acknowledge a team
that is sitting in this area that made
that happen. The Mavericks team is here.
Most of them, some of them are online.
And none of that would be poss would be
possible without this incredible team
who believed we can help make a
difference for Angelmen syndrome. And we
don't know what's going to happen and we
don't know where the data is going to
go. But they never stopped believing and
they worked their butt off to get us
here. So I could not be more proud of
that team at that table. So thank you.
Ultrogenics has advanced the ASO program
that we started and this was before the
that AS2 was initiated and thanks to
them we were able to do that. We are so
proud of that collaboration and our
collaboration with everybody Ionis and
Oakill. We are so proud of incoded all
of our programs. We don't help to stop
stopping to support everybody. But it
started with ultragenics and a dream.
And that led to Mavericks, Courageous,
Transformatics, and other programs that
we're actively working on. So, something
that's always important to remember is
that it always seems impossible until
it's done. Thank you.