So with that, I will welcome our next
speaker
who is myself and Jennifer Panagulus who
is hopefully sitting somewhere near Oh,
she's right there. Um, so Jennifer
Panagulius is um an unbelievable force.
Most of you know her. I'm gonna let her
introduce herself. But one thing I would
like to say is that
so much of what I just showed you at AS2
Bio and Ebon is because of her and she
doesn't like to be seen or heard. She
likes to stay in the background, but she
deserves more credit than any of you
will ever know. So, Jennifer, please
come up.
[applause]
So we will go to the next presentation.
We are going to recap what we heard
yesterday at the Angelman Syndrome
Bioarker and Alchemist Consortium and
the translational research symposium. We
want to recap that for you because it's
a closed door session in which parents
aren't there. And the reason for that is
to keep it intimate, collaborative, and
very research focused and driven in a
way in which we don't want people to
have to change the tone or the tenor of
the way they're speaking about research
from to make sure the whole audience
understands it. It's fast. It's a
lightning speed. It was 35 talks in nine
hours, but we got there and we got
through it and we learned so very much.
So basically 20 talks for ABOM
and 10 talks for the translational
research symposium
and we're going to summarize those for
you. So, as most of you know, I've
already introduced myself. I have many
roles here, but the most important role
that I play, particularly for the Avon,
is that I'm the mother to Quincy. And I
have to think about and talk about what
is meaningful and measurable to her
because that is patient focused drug
development. And I'm going to pass it
off to Jennifer to give you the scoop of
everything that we learned yesterday.
>> Do you want me to just jump to the
summary slide, do you think? No,
>> introduce yourself. Okay.
I don't know where that went.
Ah, here we go. Hi, thank you um for
having me here today. It's always a
pleasure to be here and it's really
amazing every year to see how many
people attend this meeting and take the
time out of your busy lives to come and
learn. So, thank you so much. Um I'm
Jennifer Panigulas. and the head of
regulatory and policy at FAST,
co-director of the Abomb with Allison.
Um, and I also have a role at AS2 Bio
and and some of the portfolio companies
like Maverick's Bio. Um, but I'm also an
advocate and I absolutely love um
engaging with the community in PFDD and
advocacy activities. And I want to thank
Ryan and Amanda in particular for an
amazing year this year. I think it was a
landmark year in terms of our raising
vis visibility for Angelman syndrome in
Washington and with the FDA in
particular and that was really um you
know driven by your stories and your
participation in those efforts and it
really goes a long way with the
regulators to help their understanding.
So thank you. Um, I'm going to tell you
a little bit about the ABOM, um, which
Allison alluded to in her last
presentation, but essentially we have a
goal of advancing or creating
identifying drug development tools that
will advance the regulatory science for
Angelman syndrome. And that's really
just a fancy way of saying we want to
make sure that there's appropriate tools
to measure changes if we're running
clinical trials of individuals um, with
Angelman syndrome to make sure that the
changes are in fact meaningful. And in
advancing the regulatory science, we're
just trying to make it easy for the
regulators to understand these tools so
that they can make decisions about
whether or not to approve drugs for AS.
The purpose is really to bring together
uh a consortium of individuals including
um academics, so researchers, doctors,
industry, and advocates to make sure
we're really all on the same page about
what we're measuring and how we measure
it. And you would think that this is an
easy thing to do, but it's not always
that easy. People are doing this in
addition to their full-time jobs at at
uh hospitals or at companies or at fast
and ASF. And it's really important
because having that consensus is an
important way to drive things forward
with with the FDA, with the European
Medicine's Agency and other regulators
around the world because when we're on
the same page, it gives them confidence
that we're moving in the right
direction. And part of that is engaging
with them, which we did yesterday and we
do periodically to make sure that they
feel aligned with where we're going with
the identification of outcome measures
and biomarkers to be used in clinical
trials of Angelman syndrome. Um, a
really important part of the ABOM is in
identifying what's out there. If we see
gaps, we have to think about should we
fill them? Should we work as the ABOM to
fill these gaps? And an example of a gap
we filled was on a measure to assess
communication in individuals with AS.
And that's called the ORCA or the
observer reported communication
abilities measure which I think some of
you have heard of and participated in
surveys to develop. Um and that really
really was born out of a conversation
with FDA several years ago where they
felt maybe we didn't have the best
battery of assessments to look at
communication abilities in someone who
is non-verbal. Uh and so we we started
to work on that as the ABOM together
with Duke University. And you'll hear
more about that measure later today. But
that's an example of where we saw a gap
and filled it. And really making sure
that we have rigorous tools that they're
high quality and we feel like they're
fit for purpose to use in trials and
sharing. This is actually the most
important thing that the ABOM does is
making sure information isn't held back
or siloed by one group because it
doesn't help the field at large and the
community at large just to have
information here and have nobody else
know about it. So if you're part of this
forum, you're expected to share and we
want to uh hold everybody to that high
standard to really push the community
forward as a whole.
The mission is to really make sure we
have a framework for clinical trial
design. And that means having outcome
measures that that look at symptoms that
are meaningful and important to measure
in individuals with Angelin syndrome. So
that if we use a treatment, we're seeing
that it has positive benefits in those
measures. We also look to identify
biomarkers and I'm going to talk about
that more in my next presentation. and
just to make sure we have consensus
about that to push field forward the
field of research in the hopes that
we're going to benefit all individuals.
So we're not thinking about one age
group or one genotype. We're trying to
think holistically across the whole um
spectrum of individuals that live with
Angelman syndrome.
Allison showed you this and um what I
just want to mention here is that the
ABOM is part of a really bigger
framework that FAST has uh undertaken
over the years to make sure that we're
ready to have therapies approved for
Angelmen syndrome and it starts with
research. You've heard about uh
organoids and cell lines and animal
models and that's all part of it. But
the Abbomb's a really important link in
that chain because once you have
promising candidates or promising drugs
that you think might work in improving
the symptoms of Angelman syndrome, you
have to have a framework to measure
that. And so making sure that clinical
trial readiness is part of the landscape
is a really critical piece because if if
companies in particular, if industry
thinks there's not a good way to measure
change in Angelman syndrome, it makes it
hard and then they don't want to
necessarily spend the money to run
trials there. So equally important with
animal models and cell lines is making
sure we have ways to measure change.
Allison took you through this. So I'm
going to jump through our history and
and vision. Um and you know about the
symptoms, but what I want to comment on
here is something the Abomb thinks about
deeply is the impact of the symptoms of
your children on you as the parent. And
that comes into our our focus about how
we measure change and what's the meaning
of that change because sometimes when we
look at change uh in the individual, it
also has a positive impact on the
family. And a great example is sleep,
right? That came up yesterday and we had
a long talk about that. But if your
child's sleep improves, it's probably
also true that your sleep improves if
you're not up at night taking care of
your child and attending to their needs
or having to sleep with them every
night. So we think about the impact and
factor that into what we're looking at
at times.
We do that by collecting patient
experience data. And this has been
something that the ABOM has been focused
on since its inception. And really it
started with work to outline the disease
through a concept model which is really
just a map of all the symptoms and a
publication in 2020 that mapped that and
then survey work. So we do surveys even
as simple as a Facebook survey or or the
more robust surveys like the one that
was before the patient focused drug
development meeting that happened in
April to get feedback from you on your
lived experience. And this is really
important because if we're not designing
trials in a way that factors in your
lived experience, we might be measuring
the wrong things or measuring things
that you don't think are important.
Um Allison has talked about the natural
history study. Um but what I think is a
a great um uh feature of the Abomb's
work is that we've actually financially
supported this study. So um it goes back
to 2006
uh through the work of WHON the team at
Boston Children's Raidies um and this
has been a really important data
collection vehicle for many many years.
So it was first funded by the NIH and
then for five years by FDA and then the
last three years by some of the members
of the ABOM and we see the value in
keeping this going. So your
contributions there are critically
important and we thank you for that.
That's also given rise to um other
natural history studies in the UK,
Belgium, uh Latam and Spain supported by
other entities and so it helps us
globally to really continue to collect
this data and inform the research
landscape.
Uh this is what Allison just showed you
which is essentially that that natural
history data has a strong application.
And what I want to highlight here is
that it's so informative with global
regulators because they are really of
the mindset that you have to show me the
proof, right? It's not just enough to
tell me like in my clinical experience
as a physician, which I'm not, but in
the case of a physician talking to the
agency, in my clinical experience, I I
ran a trial and I think that my patient
on this drug is doing better because I
know that generally my patients don't do
this. And what FDA and the European
Medicine's Agency really want to see is
the proof, right? They want to see the
proof that you've actually made a change
and you can see that it's different than
an untreated individual. Um, and so data
really underly this and make it more
powerful when you're trying to show them
that we believe that a drug is having a
promising effect because it's vastly
different than what we know and is
documented. So when you put that in
front of them, it's very powerful.
I'll skip ahead on this.
I'm going to go um to the patient
focused drug development meeting. Um
this meeting in in April was really so
pivotal in the understanding and it
resulted in a voice of the patient
report which was published yesterday on
FDA's website. So you can access it or
it's also available on the fast and ASF
website and it details important aspects
of the lived experience in terms of
symptoms that you feel as a community
are very important how they impact you
and how they impact your loved one and
what you want to see as treatment
priorities. And this report gets
utilized by FDA and even other agencies
uh to really help them understand
what the meaning of these symptoms and
the meaning of changes are to you and
they need to factor that into their
regulatory decision making. So it's
really key in in their regulatory review
of applications that they'll get in the
future and it also as I said informs the
work that we do at ABOM because we want
to make sure we we focus more on the
measures that you care most about.
So with that, yesterday's meeting um was
a great meeting. It was one of the best
meetings I think we've ever had as the
ABOM. Um and what we started with was a
conversation really around the PFDD
meeting. It's not noted here on my
slide, but Ryan Fischer gave an overview
of the work that was done um in the
premeating survey and then in the
meeting itself that led to the voice of
the patient report highlighting some of
the the uh the feedback and testimonies
that were given and the impact of that.
Um, and it was really a great review and
I want to thank everybody that
participated in the surveys and the
meeting itself because we did have a
debrief with FDA after that meeting and
they said it was so impactful that at
times some of your feedback was actually
hard to hear because they didn't even
understand how absolutely devastating
the condition can be on families and it
really makes them feel more motivated
but also they understand more. they
learn more about the impact of symptoms
on your day-to-day life. And so that was
really good feedback and we had amazing
attendance. Almost 50 people from the
FDA were at the PFDD meeting or
virtually part of it. Um and it's really
something that they want to build on and
so they asked the Abbomb to follow up on
a few things coming out of that meeting.
One of those things was better
understanding your attitudes as a
community towards the risks and benefits
of gene therapies for Angelman syndrome.
So what we did coming out of the PFDD
meeting was we had some focus groups
where we got feedback from individuals
in the community about their attitudes
towards how you would think about the
benefits and risks of gene therapies.
What are you worried about? What do you
think about the safety? Um what do you
think about the efficacy? Importantly,
what do you need to know to help make
decisions about considering
participation in a clinical trial of a
gene therapy? um how do you need
information presented to you and really
are you willing to do it? Are you
willing to consider this for your child?
What's your willingness or what are what
are your reservations? And the agency
really wants to know that better because
they've said to us that especially in a
rare disease they understand the way
that it's often approached is you're
willing to do anything. At the outset
you think I am willing to do whatever it
takes to get a treatment for my child.
But sometimes there comes a point where
you're presented with information and
you feel, you know, maybe this is a step
too far or maybe I don't understand
enough about this. And that's what the
agency really wants us to do so we can
think about in taking these trials
forward. What's the best way to
communicate with you and present
educational materials or have the doctor
have conversations with you that really
educate you? And the only way we can
know what you think about it is for you
to tell us. And so we presented on that
yesterday, which was really an an
interesting conversation.
I didn't get to update my slide, but we
were supposed to um hear from the FDA on
this as well, and unfortunately they
canled due to the shutdown. So, in
addition to disrupting all your flights,
the shutdown was keeping FDA from coming
to our meeting.
We also talked about the Orca and what
Orca scores mean. Um, and really what we
did there was we had a very powerful
panel where we heard from five moms
about how they uh how how their child
communicates and they took part in a
survey about the orca and really gave
feedback to the team about what changes
in the ORCA mean like what do they think
a score um let's say of 50 you know when
you're developing these measures you
have to understand how they work but
then also how do you score them and what
does that score really mean? So, they
reflected on what a score meant to them
based on their child's abilities and
what they thought a meaningful change
would be. And that really informs how we
think about changes on the scale. Do you
need to move two points? Do you need to
move four points? And and that feedback
is very powerful in informing how we
interpret those scores and how
regulators interpret those scores. And
then we really built off that lived
experience of families from the patient
focused drug development meeting in a in
a number of sessions. One focused on
challenging behaviors and this was an
area followup followup that FDA wanted
us to undertake. They heard you talk a
lot about anxiety in that meeting and in
the survey and and what we really want
to do is sort of tease apart what is
anxiety and angelman syndrome. Is it
really challenging behaviors? And so
they asked us to dive deeper into that.
We actually did have someone from the
FDA who still participated in the
meeting come and talk to us about that
and how we might consider that and
measure that. But what we did was
reflect on the learnings from the PFDD
meeting. And if any of you participated
in the premeating survey, we asked you
to rank your top five treatment
priorities, but then to explain to us in
writing what you thought would be a
meaningful change in a symptom. And so
if you did that, I want to thank you
because we got almost 1,700 line items
on a spreadsheet and we actually went
through all of those responses and
presented it back to the Abomb to sort
of think about what's really involved in
the concept of anxiety and challenging
behaviors. What does that really mean?
Is it aggression? Is it hitting? Is it
impulsivity? And really like teasing
that apart to understand it more so we
can better design measures and trials to
capture that. And importantly to hear
what you think is important. And we
clearly heard that very small changes in
behavior could make a big difference in
your day-to-day.
We did the same for sleep and cognitive
domains. Uh and really what we did was
hear from uh teams at Rush and Boston
Children's about what they've learned
about aspects of sleep and cognition
that are important to you, how we
measure those, what's the best way to
consider measure those in trials. And
again reflecting that experience that
you gave through your responses in the
survey about what matters to you in
sleep, sleeping more, waking up less at
night, uh maybe using less sleep
medications. All of that we're factoring
into our considerations of how we
measure that in clinical trials. And I
think that I will hand it off to
Allison.
>> [applause]
>> Thank you Jennifer that was perfect. Um
and so overall I think that um you can
see her conclusions about the regulatory
engagement that we have, the industry
and advocacy engagement that we have and
we keep reminding everyone why we're
here and we are here for these children
and that is the only reason and we need
to ensure that patient focused drug
development is at the core of everything
that we do and is at the core of
everyone in this room. um because that's
the only way we can transform the lives
of those that we love deeply living with
Angelman syndrome. Um we followed that
with the translational research
symposium which is where our scientists
can get deep deep deep into the science
and not have to you know keep it in lay
terms for all of the rest of us to
understand. Um, and so again, we um had
those 20 talks at AOM and then we had
these 10 lightning abstracts that I'm
really excited for you guys to see
something similar today, but we're doing
it in lay terms. Um, and those abstracts
were incredibly helpful and I actually
loved the format. these and these folks
spoke so fast and so quickly and got to
the point and didn't, you know, really
have to explain the background because
everyone in the room knew the background
and could really just get to the
conclusions which were the core and the
purpose. And so really we started the
translational research symposium to
create an environment where cutting edge
research can be shared with colleagues
in the scientific field and industry and
the clinicians who are going to see this
coming forward on the medical side for
our for our kids hopefully soon. Um and
we like to foster collaboration and
shared knowledge and problem solve
understand scientific discovery in a way
in which we can help improve the
outcomes of other people's labs by
learnings in a different lab. And if we
don't have an environment to collaborate
and do that, ultimately everyone's going
to work in a silo, which is not great
for any of our children. And so we
really are able to consider novel ideas,
bring the field closer to transformative
therapeutic development and be okay if
something fails, and say, "We're going
to bring this forward. This didn't work.
This failed. This is why." And maybe
somebody's going to have an idea of how
to rescue that and prevent it from
failure or agree that this is something
we should not continue to pursue because
there are failures in science. and we
need to be prepared for that. Um we
share and in that we share both positive
and negative data. So we had over fif
150 people in attendance at the
symposium including researchers,
clinicians, uh regulators and industry
members, 10 lightning scientific talks
and over 30 posters in the poster
session that you're going to see also
yourselves um after this meeting which
was really exciting and the take-home
from that was that um we had a
presentation from Dave Dave Seagull on
crisper cast 13 as a gene editing
strategy that we've been supporting um
for the last few years and ultimately
there was a decision made that this was
a no-go decision. ision and that this
program didn't look like it had
superiority or advancement in what is
currently being developed and we were
not going to continue furthering that
program. Um, and that was that was a
really great talk to show how and why
they made that decision. Um, followed by
a talk on Zincfinger showing how on the
opposite end how that's looking really
good and we're really seeing some um
potential candidates, drug candidates
for humans that could potentially knock
down that anti-sense and upregulate the
copy of that UB3 gene. Um, we heard a
talk from Eric Lavine about the
importance of genes outside of UB3A in
the deletion and how we can think about
measuring up regulation and the impact
and effect of those genes. Um, and we
heard a talk from Brown University by
Alvin Wang about the function of of
something called autophagy and brain
health and how some drugs can improve
autophagy and neuronal function. Um, we
heard from North Carolina State
University team and you'll hear more
about that today about a new assay that
they developed called the ubiquination
assay to measure the function of a gene
therapy or of a protein therapy and how
that UB3A protein is working. And we
heard some great talks and you're going
to hear some of them this afternoon as
well about how people are really trying
hard to detect UB3A in the CSF.
Jennifer's going to talk a little bit
more about that in the next talk, so I'm
not going to give anything away. But as
a potential future biioarker, which
she's going to explain to you what that
is, that can have really incredible
impact if we can find something like
that that works and can show us target
engagement in UB3A expression. Um, so we
were able to share all of that and
really learn from that, which was
incredible. And so with that, um, that's
a conclusion of 35 talks in nine hours
presented to you in 15 minutes. Um, but
thank you. Thank you for listening.
Thank you to our sponsors. Thank you to
everyone who was there yesterday. Um it
was a big day. It was a really important
day and I feel really proud of everyone
that really participated and engaged and
wants to advance the field in a very
very similar way. So thank you for that.