Hopefully she didn't go too far. She's
coming back up and she's going to talk
to you about biomarkers.
>> Thanks.
All right. I know I'm between you and
lunch so I will be fast.
Um these are my disclosures. All right.
So biomarkers uh biomarkers are
characteristics that you can measure in
the body. And so it's not an outcome
like um I don't have any verbal
communication skills or I have limited
mobility. Biomarkers are objective
measures that we can measure. And in
Angelman syndrome, we look at CSF, EEG,
and MRI. These are some of the
biomarkers that we're interested in
because they're relevant to individuals
with Angelman syndrome. Um on the right
here, what you'll see is essentially um
FDA's road map of what biomarkers can
do. Um they can be diagnostic. So it
could be a gene test for diagnosis of a
disease. Um they could be for safety
reasons. So maybe you have an antibbody
at baseline and if you were going to get
a specific treatment, maybe that's not
safe for you. But what ABOM is really
focused on are biomarkers that predict
response or or indicate a response to a
treatment which are efficacy biomarkers
or sometimes you might hear them
referred to as surrogate endpoints. So
this is kind of what we we've been
looking at as the Abomb. So first you
have to understand what is an endpoint.
So an endpoint is something that you
measure in a clinical trial. a targeted
outcome in a clinical trial that you
analyze statistically to determine if a
drug is safe and effective. And the way
that we do that is we include outcomes
that are relevant to the disorder. So in
Angelman syndrome, it could be
communication, sleep, activities of
daily living and and whatnot. These are
outcomes. And then you pick an outcome
and say, "I'm going to look at the
change in this outcome from
pre-treatment to after treatment to
determine if there was a response."
Um, usually an outcome measure focuses
on a way a patient feels or functions.
So when I mentioned communication, that
would be sort of how a patient is
functioning or an individual with
Angelin syndrome that has limited uh
speech capabilities or communication
capabilities, we might look at that as
an outcome in terms of how they are
functioning. Um and importantly, outcome
measures should be relevant to the
disorder. It seems obvious, but they
really need to be relevant and ideally
capturing what matters to you, which I
just mentioned in the prior
presentation. On the bottom here, this
graph is the top 10 treatment priorities
as determined by the PFDD survey. It's
in the voice of the patient report. And
so what we're trying to do is make sure
we have outcomes that capture symptoms
that you rank as important. So, for
example, we wouldn't want to do a study
that's focused on pain if you say, "I
don't care about pain or how much pain
my child has. What I care about is do
they communicate more effectively? Do
they understand me better?
Biomarkers can sometimes also be
endpoints in clinical trials. And this
is what I mentioned before as a
surrogate endpoint. And that's a
biomarker like measuring blood or CSF
that's thought to predict clinical
benefit. and meaning that you're not
measuring how a patient feels or
functions through the biioarker, but you
think that there's a relationship
between that biomarker and an outcome
measure so that the biomarker will
predict a change in that outcome measure
later. Um, and oftentimes you use
biomarkers as surrogate endpoints in
disorders when it takes a really long
time to measure that outcome. And so an
example of this would be in a a study
maybe where you were looking at people
with cardiovascular diseases and you
were trying to see if a drug changes the
number of strokes that happen in a
population. And so if you enrolled a
group of individuals that had risk
factors for stroke, if you had to follow
them until they all had or didn't have a
stroke, you might be following them for
a very very long time. And so usually
what happens instead is they focus on
other measures or biomarkers like blood
pressure and say okay if I give this
patient a drug and do I make their blood
pressure go down and then you can get an
approval off of that biioarker instead
of waiting all the way to see the
outcome.
But to do this, you have to accumulate
extensive evidence. And I want to say
extensive evidence because from a
regulatory perspective, FDA and other
agencies will really want you to show
that you you really know how the
biomarker does relate to that outcome.
And usually you need clinical trials to
do that to really prove the relationship
between that biomarker or surrogate
endpoint and the clinical outcome that
you think will be changed.
So if we think now about Angelman
syndrome, some of the biomarkers that we
believe are important and have
investigated as the Abomb um are EEG,
MRI and CSF markers. So I'll start with
EEG. So here you may have heard um in
some forums um delta power is measured.
So it's a parameter on EEG that we see
is increased during sleep and wake
periods in individuals with Angelman
syndrome. And if you start on the left,
you will see um in that plot there's a
red line and a gray line. And the red is
Angelman syndrome and the gray is a
neurotypical or a group of neurotypical
individuals. And you can see that this
delta band is increased clearly in
individuals with Angelmen syndrome. We
also know that this delta band or delta
power decreases over time with age just
naturally. But if you look at the middle
plot, you'll see the red is still higher
than the gray. So, it's still higher in
individuals with Angelman syndrome than
it is in neurotypical individuals. Um,
and this increased delta power is really
thought to be due to the lack of UB3A
that impacts synaptic functioning. And
you heard about both UB3A and some of
its effects this morning. If you look on
the all the way to the right, we see
that in individuals with deletion
mutations or non-deion mutations, it's a
little bit higher in individuals with
deletion, which might accord to the fact
that deletion is um usually the the most
severe presentation of Angelman
syndrome. And so it's very much
increased and there's a little bit of a
difference even between mutation types.
I'm not going to explain all of what's
in this plot, but essentially it's safe
to say that there's been some ABOM
groups or some ABOM members I should say
that have investigated how delta power
might relate to outcomes in Angelman
syndrome. And what they've seen through
data and analyses of the natural history
is that the higher your delta power is,
the lower your cognitive function would
be predicted to be. So they can see in
individuals with high delta power, their
cognitive abilities are lower. And so
that's how that relationship might
unfold. That if we bring delta power
down, maybe some abilities would would
grow.
Importantly, we know that the mouse, the
angelman mouse that you heard about this
morning, also has this delta power
increase. And there have been studies by
some of the groups involved in Abomb
that have looked at using an olucleotide
in a mouse. And if you look at the blue
group here, they took uh mice and they
gave them an anti-sense aloneucleotide
that targeted that paternal gene
anti-sense transcript to try to
unsilence the paternal uh gene and allow
UB3 expression. And so they treated
these mice, the blue group, and they
compared them to mice treated with a
control oligonucleotide. So either
angelin mice um on the left or in green
wild type or or or typical mice. They
saw that they were able to bring the
delta power down in the mice that were
treated with the incense oligoucleotide
that was specific for Angelman syndrome.
Whereas the mice that got the control
ASO that had Angelmen syndrome didn't
change at all. So we they saw with
treatment they could bring down this
delta power. Most importantly is now
through clinical trials evidence is
emerging that you can do the same in in
humans. And what they've seen in the red
here versus the blue, the red is the
natural history data predictions. So
again, the power of natural history data
because we can compare delta power in
untreated individuals versus treated. So
red is the natural history prediction
and blue is the treated group on an
olonucleotide. And you can see that
their delta power is coming down. And
importantly on the right, you could see
this group also had an increase in their
cognition abilities based on an
assessment by the Bailey scale. And so
it sort of is following that predicted
trend that if you improve their delta
power, you bring it down with treatment,
you might see a change in outcomes.
We're also looking at MRI as a potential
biomarker. We know very little about
this. What we do know um as Allison
mentioned in her talk is that
individuals with Angelman syndrome have
um delayed mileelination. And so what
you're looking at here is a plot of
individuals males and females with as in
the circles those sort of blue and
pinkish circles as compared to the
triangles which are neurotypical
population. And you can kind of see that
on average the brain size is a little
bit less in those younger individuals
with Angelin syndrome. If we could use
MRI that might be a nice way to see if
that changes with treatment and if that
if they catch up in that myelination and
then that brain volume. So that's
something that we're going to follow
further to explore and and look at.
And then we look at fluids. You heard
that um in Allison's talk. And this is
something we saw yesterday. We had some
really interesting talks at the Ebomb on
biomarkers yesterday. And one of them um
was about a a test that's run by a
company called Saskappa. And you're
going to hear Morty talk later today
about this in more detail. But what
they've done is take cerebrros spinal
fluid or CSF from individuals with
Angelman syndrome and also neurotypicals
to see if you if there is a difference
in their UB3A expression. So can you see
if there's protein that UB3A protein in
neurotypical individuals and then it's
missing in individuals with Angelman
syndrome? And that's in fact what
they've started to see on this test. And
I'll let uh Morty talk about that more
in his talk. But this is very important
from a regulatory perspective because if
we could measure UB3A, so if there was
none before treatment and then you see
it go up after treatment, that would be
an indicator of response to a therapy
that we could see earlier
maybe than some of the outcomes on the
clinical measures like the Bailey or the
Orca or the Vineland, right? It would
give us really early evidence and
powerful evidence of a change because
you wouldn't expect it to be there.
That's the lefth hand side. On the right
hand side, we also have a company called
Somalogic that's doing some um
exploration into proteins in the CSF.
And this is a busy plot, but if you
basically look at that bottom box in in
red where you see some pink and reds,
what we've started to see is there's
some protein signatures that's a little
bit different in individuals with
Angelman syndrome than neurotypicals.
And so we're we need to further explore
what those what those signatures mean.
Um and do they correlate to outcomes
that we don't know yet.
So based on what we know about EEG and
CSF and MRI, the question is are these
biomarkers uh surrogate endpoints yet?
Can we use these in trials and make that
sort of the primary focus and and look
at the outcomes later to maybe speed up
um our clinical trials and readouts?
Unfortunately, no. We're not there yet.
We just we're just not there yet. We
need to know more and your that your
data contributions and the samples that
you've provided help us explore this
further and it's not something we're
going to give up on but we're just not
there yet. We need to build more
evidence to to do this. And what I'm
showing here are the two phase three
trials that are ongoing now uh with
Ultragenics and Ionis. And you can see
their primary outcome measures are on
the Bailey scale some aspect of the
Bailey scale. And that's because we're
not there yet with those um other
measures including delta power to
utilize that as the primary focus of the
trial.
This is a busy slide, but what I want to
show you here is that biomarkers are
powerful even if they're not ready to be
a surrogate endpoint. And that's because
they provide really good objective
evidence that that rounds out your whole
data set and they can support outcome
measures. And I like to think of it as a
belt and suspenders in your clinical
trial. Um, Topherin is a drug that was
approved a few years ago for ALS. And in
the top two boxes here, I think I have a
build. Um, what I wanted to show you is
that they did a pivotal trial, so a
phase three trial in individuals with
ALS, and they used a rating scale that's
assessed by a doctor to look at whether
or not their symptoms of ALS are
improving. So sometimes when you have
these scales, you can have variability
from doctor to doctor and how they
assess it. Even if you really try to
train them up and make sure there's
consistency, there's a little bit of
variability. And so sometimes that
impacts the analysis. And what happened
in this study was that they failed. They
they did not hit that primary endpoint.
It was not um successful. But they had
studied a biomarker called NFL or
neuropilament light chain. And there had
been a lot of work to understand what
does this mean in ALS? and it's
basically a marker of neurons
degenerating and they understood that it
related to the progression of ALS and
this was part of the trial and so even
though they failed the primary outcome
the FDA said well you know we've learned
a lot about NFL and what we see in your
data set what you're showing us is that
in patients that have a reduction in NFL
they also have like the best reduction
in their ALS rating score so there's
some sort of relationship there with
bringing down this biioarker and
improvement even if you failed the
primary end point. And so even though
you didn't hit what you were supposed to
hit, when we look at the total package
of evidence, we think that there's
something there and we're going to
approve this basically um on this
surrogate endpoint, even though that's
not where you started, that's where
you're going to end up because this
evidence was persuasive and we feel like
biologically something's going on. And
that's what good biomarkers can do. they
sort of build up and provide evidence
that something is happening at a
biological level even if some of the
outcome measures um don't really show
that yet.
The other thing that biomarkers do are
they can revol revolutionize the
landscape of development and this is
because sometimes you can read out these
biomarkers very early and I'm showing
you here a paper about multiple
sclerosis and they had a real explosion
in that area because they had
advancements in MRI technologies and
they started to have better confidence
that they could measure the lesions on
the brain that are involved in MS and
predict how that would relate to how the
patient felt and functioned in terms of
like their relapse relapse activity. And
so what they did was they built this
data set of correlating number of
lesions to activity in patients. And
they could basically start to see that
if we treat patients with the drug and
we see these lesions go away, then we
have good confidence and good evidence
here that shows that they won't have as
much activity. they won't relapse as
much and have as much loss of function
and feel bad. And what this did was
absolutely explode that area because
companies could come in and say, "I'm
going to do a short study and I'm going
to look at MRI over three months and I'm
going to know whether this drug works or
doesn't. And if it works, I'm going to
put money into developing it and if it
doesn't, we're going to move on to
something else." And this area has, I
think, over 20 approved therapies. I I
can't even count how many therapies
there are approved for MS. But that
biioarker absolutely moved that
landscape and that's basically what we
want to do here. Even if these
biomarkers aren't providing us what we
want for today, we want to invest in
them for tomorrow because we may get to
a point where we can screen candidates
earlier and quickly make those good ones
advance and move away from things that
don't. And I just want to end by
thanking you for your contributions,
especially with bioarkers because
they're not easy to get. Um, thank you
so much because you are absolutely
enriching and informing the development
landscape. Thanks.
[applause]
Thanks.
>> Okay. I'm the only thing standing
between you and lunch. I understand
that. Um, so we're going to get you
there. One thing I want to just announce
is a couple of items were left at the
community event last night. So, out at
registration, there's like shoes and
maybe even a purse and scarves and
things. um please go out to the
registration desk to go and get that. Um
in addition the um uh sign up to meet
with a specialist. So just so everyone
knows we have here some unbelievable and
highly experienced specialists in PT,
OT, speech therapy, ABA therapy, vision
therapy, neuro feedback, and feeding and
swallowing therapy. and you for free
families can sign up and have a
consultation with them. There's the meet
the specialist sign up if you walk out
the door and go to the left. There's um
Bianca is going to be waiting there and
anybody can sign up and there's still
some slots left and take advantage of
this because all of these individuals
have worked deeply with children with
Angelmen syndrome and adults and have
been incredibly supportive of helping
families get through whatever challenges
they're having and give them some
advice. So, please go out there and sign
up. If everyone wants to um break for
lunch, we're going to meet back in here
with your food um for a lunch and learn.
So, Ryan's going to talk to us about
advocacy, but you're welcome to bring
your food back in and um eat and listen
at 120. So, go out, have yourself some
food, bring it back in here. Everyone,
eat in here so Ryan can get started
while you're eating at 1:20. We'll see
you soon.