I'm very happy to introduce our next
speaker who is Dr. Yang Wee Jiang who
most of you know and I don't think he
needs an introduction. Um he happens to
be one of my favorite people on the
planet and also somebody who believes
deeply in this community. Um from
everything from creating the tools,
testing them from in vitro to invivo and
actually moving that from the bench to
the bedside. And so you're going to hear
a lot from him and his team um today
with in vitro and then the following
talk is someone Jeanoo from his team
talking about in in vivo. But then
tomorrow you're going to hear about the
translation of that to human clinical
trials. So um very exciting and very
happy to have him here. He's going to
talk to us about what those cell lines
in a dish look like for Angelman
syndrome. So Young Way
Well, thank you Allison and good to see
everyone every year this time too. Um
I'm extremely impressed by Ryan's um
talk and Allison remind me I'm talking
to most of you are parents uh multiple
times once you understand my science
then you can go to DC and request more
money for the research back to the Yale.
So you are much much much more powerful
voice than we do as a scientist.
Government say okay you always want
money but no impact. Um can my my slide
up.
Oh okay. Um
so I already yeah go that's fine. Why go
back? Oh that's first one. Oh okay. So
Allison give me this title. um try to go
over the some of the work we have done
in the lab with the fast support over
last four or five years. Um from this
morning's talk you probably already
learn
animal model like mice it's pretty
valuable. Um that's we as many of you
know me that I created the first and
mouse model when I was in Dr. last lab
as student but again it's a additional
model we created last couple years and
this one with larger delion the original
one is a good one but there a one we're
going to see here later after my talk
probably is an even better mouse model.
uh the reason we can use the mouse model
is there's a lot of syn between human
and mice we call conserve which is
similar particular at a concept level or
mechanis level however if we go into the
microscope like ultra structure getting
the we call the DNA sequence human and
mice are different so that's what this
morning you heard the talk mice is not
human that's a limitation using the
animal model but how do you do it in the
human particular form you do need a
human neuron. So that's the technology
common particular for example if
anti-sense oliggo many of you familiar
with was testing the animal it's not
directly translatable to the human
because human and the mice for the
anti-sense oliggo that stretched DNA
sequence is a completely different so
everything you learn from the mouse
model you have to be retested that
redesign and before you go to the human
so overcoming the limitation for animal
model we need a human neuron the
technology mentioned early in the
morning too called IPSC it's a short
abbreviation for in the poly potent stem
cell which you clearly see the
difference between human and mice it's
the human brain is a thousand time
bigger than mouse and even
mouse is still invivo we call invivo
model live model so since 2020 21 uh in
the middle of co Alice and I had a
discussion so we start this project so
yes we we need to build up a bio
repository with all the different
patient different genotype so that's
what I show here so we're happy to say
um we completed this project every
individual genotype hope everyone here
the family here we all have the IPSC
created at the Yale stem center and we
also created some of control as for this
experiment and again thank you a lot of
you here fast support or individuals
listed here on the last genotype many of
you contribute you remember it's a
middle of a co I had a conversation the
zone meeting with you and eventually we
work out how to do it and during the co
time so just walk through a few key step
once uh we get blood from your kids and
then how it was worked out at Yale. It's
a pretty complicated process and a long
duration too. Remember I talked to you
and goes through this we call RB
requirement explain to you the protocol
and what will we do and at Yale and make
sure you understand everything we do.
Then you say yes, I will contribute.
Then you put your signature on the paper
and then you mail back to us. Then we
arrang into the blood collection during
the co time. Thank you a lot of your
local physician pediatrician support. So
we're able to do this. So we collect a
blood then we will um do the sort of
spin down and that time we're going to
testing a lot of things like a
micropplasma hepatitis B hepatitis C and
during the covid time we also testing co
for the sample we collected then we use
the term called reprogramming basically
we collect a sample from blood by the
special technology called reprogramming
return to the blood cell we call adult
cell all the old cell converting to the
baby cell called a stem cell. So that
term called reprogramming it's a
technology developed by the Japanese
scientist which got a Nobel Prize for
about 15 years ago. So with that
technology then we generate using kind
of reprogramming and a lot of magic
process in the picture dish. Then we say
hey um indeed we can turn to the blood
cell to the baby cell kind of stem cell.
After that when we make sure when we do
the reprogramming
everything still maintain the good
quality. So we have do lot of the we
callization look at the genotype then
eventually this cell was preserved then
we can shipping out to many many
investigator in the in the world. So
that here's a step we took and we were
going to first confirm the genotype of
Anderman still maintain and in addition
as no other sort of genetic
alteration due to the reprogramming
mistake happened it's now no longer end
plus something that's not good. We also
did all other work together confirm
every cell is good and that's ready to
go and also we must make sure this cell
after called reprogramming they indeed
could poly potent which is stem cell we
use a different marker beautiful looking
for individual marker say okay cell
looking good and also we were going to
transfer the cell to the life mice which
is immune deficiency mice make sure this
cell indeed as a capability to
differential or turn into many different
type of cell like a neuron and muscle
and other called a terteratoma assay. So
after that one we keep in the storage
then we make many expanded many many
clone and many vials. So anyone come
from any institution interested we say
okay yeah we have it we shipping to you
in next day so eventually and fast Alice
and other we work out say okay this is a
resource would be good for community in
the long term we got to re make this one
public so we finally made this ebisic
repository so everyone in the world
commercial entity farmer and uh
investigating in the academic
institution they can free access to so
Happy to say uh we already distributed
many many PI and a few company. Uh happy
also to say there are two paper using
this cell line. It's under review right
now. So very soon you will see this uh
product in the community.
So um
once we do this I'm going to show you a
few case what we do how to use the cell
line to develop a treatment or testing
treatment. So once once you get a
disease and then you say okay um what do
we do one thing for sure the purpose is
we can we need to generate a human
neuron. So that's two technology we
using one we call 2D neuron basically
peach dish you can see individual neuron
in a peach dish second we call organal
you heard this morning we call 3D neuron
sometime which basically it's a mini
brain it's a much more complex than 2D
it's a 3D threedimension look like the
human brain of course it's a mini size
it's not perfect but it's the best we
can do right now
um so we can use have first testing for
example testing for new treatment. This
one we're working on on as you know we
do this called gene editing using a new
technology not viral non nanop particle.
So we can use this cell screen many many
different guard here we can testing 20
which you can see each guard is
different efficiency then the pink the
highest one tells you the best one. So
that's the first thing you can do very
easily can do in a couple weeks time and
we also show beautiful you can see this
green signal shows you indeed you knock
out anti- sense and reactivate the sense
the UB3 the green signal is very very
efficient and that's another way to look
at this result then furthermore we
create organal which you can see this is
three dimension structure so you choose
a very complex mimicking the human brain
structure with different color shows you
different type of cell and it also shows
you most interesting for part of you
focus on the green signal it's a UBCA we
attached to the UBCA gene with EGFP
green form proteins you can see after
incubator this green organal or 3D
neuron you see the green signal shows
you reactivation happening editing it's
working.
So with that also you can see this
particular one as we engineer with the
human neuron. So we put the EGFP touch
to the enderman UPCA gene. So you treat
with a crisp editing you can see the
reactivation happen. So when Alice and I
look at this data she said okay this is
perfect for precision medicine. As many
of parents probably know you talking
each other say hey my kids have a delion
your kids have delion so my kids is not
same as your kid the same thing for the
UBC mutation so that come down to the
heterogeneity or complexity but ideal
way in ideal way you would say okay
before you get a trim everyone should
get a cell and we testing first and see
whether it's efficient for this one. So
this is a beautiful example. You can see
this cell is a patient with larger
deletion. We treated with a crisp
editing. You can see the reactivation
happen. It's quite efficient. Of course,
it's not 100% but it's pretty efficient
way as Allison talking earlier. If you
have a 20% versus 40% or five 10%. So
that's the future. Of course, we have no
resource. We're not able to generate
cell line for every one of you but we
will use this as a showcase indeed the
value of this cell line would generate
for future for develop additional new
treatment with that I'm going to
summarize
indeed with the fast support many of
your contribution and also particular
for many family and contributed blood
and that we were able to generate 15 and
cell line from all different genotype
UPD delion po mutation imprint mutation
all cover for that case everyone
particular investigate interesting study
this one you can just send email to me
or go to ebisk they are free to
distribute uh for this particular this
all we generated we're free it's a free
distribution that's one condition
Allison very clear when we talk this
project make sure y allow allow this
free distribution for everyone including
farmer for the cell line we generated we
achieve that goal for the purpose um for
sure we show you the case that indeed
it's valuable for the human neuron
different from the mice but it's a human
neuron which often time eventually is
needed to move into the human drug
product for all different reason so this
cell line indeed I think it's extremely
valuable for engine community often time
is also valuable for other community
they can come to us as we call they call
okay can we have engine cell as a
country yeah perfectly yeah we will give
to you to help your community for the
research
for sure uh this project we're now
getting started with the fast without
fast support and a lot of people
contribute Allison and
um other from board member and all the
family contribute this repository. The
people in my lab and Shaa are
particularly contributed for this
project. With that stop here, thank you
for the opportunity.
Thank you, Young Way. That that was
great. And hopefully everyone realizes
the power of your kids blood did that.
And that is how drugs are being
developed is based off of the blood of
your children that have become neurons.
Um, so that's incredibly important and
thank you for everyone who committed and
donated cells for this initiative that
is helping all industry members
ultimately.