So now our next speaker is uh Dr. Shauna
Louu and many of you know her as a
little spitfire who um I always used to
say that I think that you know Yang we
might be the the smartest person that I
know and then I met Shauna and realized
that she might be smarter than him. Um
but she also speaks very fast and so if
you don't understand what she's saying
you raise your hand because I'm going to
make her slow down because she has so
much to say and she's so stinking smart
that she doesn't understand that no one
else can keep up with her. So there's a
lot to say, but she only has actually um
15 minutes, I think, uh in order to be
able to get through everything she wants
to. So slow and steady so everyone can
understand the amazing work that you are
doing. And she we asked her and tasked
her to create one last model, the last
one to ever be created, please, for the
large deletion genotype of Angelmen
syndrome, including all of those other
genes that we talked about outside of
UB3A.
and through incredible effort and trial
and tribulation, she has been
successful. So, I'm so excited to share
this with you because I hate models, but
this one I think is a true testament to
her dedication. So, Shauna, please.
Okay. Um, thanks for this opportunity.
Today I'd like to share an update of our
study um, the new large deletion MOS
model for and syndrome.
The commonly used UB3A XM2 deletion
model only represent about 10% of
androma syndrome patients with
intrangenic mutation. Since most people
with androma syndrome carry a large
leion in the chromosome 15 k1 to k13
region to better understand the full
spectrum of syndrome and to develop more
efficient treatment we generate a new
mouse model which carries a six megabase
large edition on the maternal
chromosome. This model represents over
70% of and syndrome patients making a
much closer to the typical clinical
presentation.
So last time we shared the
neurobbehavioral differences between the
large leion and the obcomize.
Today I will focus on what we have
learned from their EG recording how
their brain activity and sleep differ.
What that tells about uh of the
treatment development for and syndrome
using the EG as a biomarker.
We use the uh wireless EG transmitter
placed in a small subcutaneous pocket on
the back of each mice. Each transmitter
have four layers. Two EG lays positioned
to the skull to capture the activity
across entire cortex and two EMGs placed
on the tropetious muscles to monitor
muscle tone. By combining EG and EMG
signals, we could accurately assess both
seizure activity and sleep pattern.
Let's start with an example. Here's a 15
minutes uh EG snapshot from a white time
marks. You can see a stable consistent
baseline across all frequency band in
different color uh reflecting typical
brain activity under normal condition.
Next, this is an example of a cedar like
episode u composed of multiple spike
trains. These are the bursts of a highly
aptitude risma uh activity reflecting a
hypers synchronized discharge in the
cortex.
When we zoom in one of these spectrrens,
we can see a distinct onsite and
resolution, a sharp increase in delta za
and a beta power and a rhythmic
synchronization across a frequency bands
following a return to baseline. These
are classic features of generalized
seedl like events.
When we compare EEG across large leion
use knockout and the white time mice, we
found that the large leure mice showed
significantly more spike trends than
white type controls and their spike
occurs more often at night. The UB3
knock mice also had increased spike
activity compared to white type but much
less than large vision mice.
When we quantify those spike duration
and spike per second their indicators of
seure uh severity both are much higher
in the large leium mice. In the UB non
mice the spike trends were rare roughly
one shot uh event every 12 hours. um
lasting about one to two seconds. This
explains why many studies using the OB
in noncom that are recording AG for four
to six hours every day often miss these
rare events.
Next we examine the sleep patterns. Both
the large lean and obice
slept more at night than white controls.
Also our groups took similar daytime
naps. However, the quality of nighttime
sleep was very different.
The large leium mice had the longest
resting wake apparas, meaning they were
awake but not fully alert, reflecting
lighter and less restorative sleep. Both
mutton groups showed a a shorter active
w active wave PRS compared to whiteab
especially large leion.
When we broke this down by sleep stage,
slow web sleep which indicated the deep
sleep uh was more disrupted in the large
leium mice. While the paradoxical sleep
show different changes in the true
groups but is a large likely influenced
by the nighttime surgery event.
When we visualize the sleep stage
transition, we found that both mutton
lines and the frequent transitions
between stage and night a clear uh sun
are fragmented sleep. In contrast, the
white tub showed a stable consolidated
sleep.
Interesting. Um, during the daytime,
sleep architecture was more comparable
among all groups and the OB knockice
were even applied slight slightly more
alert.
When we look at the EG rhythms and power
spectrum, here's an example of a 12-hour
daytime EG in the white time to on top.
You can see normal distinction of delta
power in red, the alpha power in green
and beta power in yellow. In the large
leium mice to on the bottom, the delta
power in red was dramatically increased
while the alpha power in green and beta
power in yellow is remarkably reduced.
When we extracted and and compared those
specific frequency bands, we found
increased delta power only significant
in large leium mice but not in the UB
knockout.
The reduced alpha sigma and beta power
in both models but more pronounced in
the large leium mice. This pattern
highly delta, low alpha and beta match
the EG signatures in androma syndrome
patients suggesting the large vision um
model better capture the human
phenotypes.
To summarize this part, seizure
susceptibility was highest in large mice
moderate in the UB3 knockout. Sleep
architecture was fragmented in both and
syndrome mouse model. The AG power
spectrum changes in crisis of delta rad
alpha sigma and beta was only seen in
the large leium mice aligning with human
eg patterns.
Next we apply our step R&P the crisper
based gene editing therapy to the large
leure mice. We treated two groups, one
at postnatal day one and another at the
postnatal day 21 and compare them with
untrade later base and wab controls. The
EG was recorded at six months and one
year of age.
We found the step R&P significantly rad
susceptibility in both postnatal day one
and postnatal day 21s
at six months age. On the day one
treatise already show [snorts] a strong
reduction in spike trains duration and
spike per seconds which indicated the
reduction in both seedure frequency and
severity
by one year. The day 21 mice still
maintain its improvements.
As for the sleep, step RP treatment
reduced resting wake duration and
paradoxic sleep uh duration
and increase the weight uh active awake
and slow wave sleep indicating more
consolidated sleep by just six months
after the treatment.
By the one year the day one treated a
mice showed extended slow wave sleep
compared to white type level despite a
confounding factor of aging.
When we visualize uh the sleep stage
transition treat mice showed a fewer
fragmented transition at night
approaching the stable patterns of a
white tab at six months after treatment
man. At one year, the day 21 titanomize
showed sleep state transition pattern
nearly identical to the Y type
indicating a delayed yet progressive
restoration of neurosircuit
organization.
Similar pattern also observed during the
daytime recording.
By one year of age, the steep transition
between traed large leion and the white
high pers are nearly indistinguishable
in easy reasons power the K biomarker
was significantly reduced after the
treatment in both groups. The day one
trait mice match the white level by just
six months of six months after
treatment.
Meanwhile, both the day one and day 21
trader groups showed a significant
increase in alpha power. And in day one
trade group, the alpha power was fully
restored to the white type level.
By one year, the therapeutic effect
still maintain and the delta power of
the day 21 trait mice are even at the
same as white. During the daytime,
the day 21 treated the mice showed even
higher of alpha powers than white
controls suggesting an enhanced cortical
synchronization even with delayed
treatment and confounding factor of
aging.
Therefore, we summarize the second
section. The step RP treatment reduce
seizure frequency, duration and severity
in both early stage and later stage
treatment.
It improves sleep quality, restored more
stable sleep pattern and normalized e
rhythms towards white level.
Overall, this data demonstrate that the
new large leion mouse model provides a
much more comprehensive and clinical
relevant representation of and syndrome.
It recapulated the key neurological
features observing the patients with
large leion including increasure
susceptibility disrupt sleep
architecture and the distinct age rhythm
changes of and syndrome
by capturing those broader phenotypes
that traditional UB3 a mice um missed.
This large leion model serve as a power
tool for understanding the full genetic
contribution of the 15 Q11 to Q1 region
Q13 region and for the testing future
therapeutics under condition that more
closely to mirror the majority of
syndrome patients. Ultimately, this new
MOS model brings us one more step closer
to the translate translation discovery
in the lab into meaningful improvement
for the families living with and
syndrome.
Beyond today's topic, I'm excited to
share news. We recently generated the
first asupdia mouse model which carries
a six macbased deletion on the maternal
chromosone and a six macbased
duplication on the paternal chromone.
mimicking the ASUPD
ASUPD form. This I uh this idea actually
come from one of your questions last
time. If there's a gold model and
treatment developed for the large
leation, what about UPD? We are now
conducting baseline behavior test on
this new model and I'm looking forward
to share the results with you soon.
At the end, I'd like to thank my mentor
Dr. Jang and our lab member close
collaborator Joe Lab and founding
support.
[applause]
I said no more models and there she
goes. She made another model. Um no we
we um purposefully wanted to ensure that
as we think about the genes outside of
UB3A we also think about the genes in
UPD and ICD. That's incredibly
important. Um, so, so really I know that
was a whirlwind and probably very few of
you really captured the significance of
that and I'm going to summarize it in
one sentence which essentially is that
they made a model that is more
significantly impaired than the
traditional Angelman knockout model
which is just the UB3A. But what they
also showed is when they put crisper in
to just edit UB3A, they actually
corrected almost all of the phenotypes.
But what's more important than that,
what it tells us is that that model may
not distinguish the specific between
nonUB3 genes and UV3 genes in
correction. But what it will tell us is
that again they repeated the fact that
they were able to rescue phenotype
almost equally if not equally in the
newborn mice as they were in a P21 mouse
which would be an adolescent a teenager
mouse. And ultimately what they found
was over time at six months and at one
year that correction got better and
better for the older animals which is
something we believe is probably true
for humans. Right? It may take more time
for an adult or an adolescent to see the
same benefit as a 2-year-old or a
one-year-old. But we have all the time
in the world. We've just been waiting.
So it's okay if it takes more time. But
it may have to drive the fact that in a
clinical trial environment, we can't be
cutting these trials off too early
because we may see the best of benefit
over time. And so for me, that's what I
learned from that presentation. And I
hope that you can take that home as real
success and really good information as
we think about discovering drug
development.