With that, our next speaker is Dr.
Nadavatu, who's gonna perfectly
complement what was just talked about,
which is how do we think about the genes
outside of UB3A. And so, he's going to
talk to us about a new technology. I
think you heard from him last year and
the year before, but we've made some
really nice progress in the last year
about upregulating the genes that are
important outside of EB3A. So, please
come and present.
Thanks.
>> Thank you so much and for the
introduction. And so let me see if it
starts.
>> Oh, cool. All right. So, we'll start
with disclosure and move to gene
regulatory elements. So, um my lab works
on gene regulatory elements and what
we've been using them for here is in
terms of therapy. So, just a quick 101
on gene regulatory elements. So
everybody's on board. If you have a
gene, you probably have a promoter which
serve an onoff switch right next to the
gene that turns on if we envision it as
like a light bulb. But in addition, you
have what's called dimmer switches that
could be very far away that are called
enhancers that sort of turn on the other
switch at different time points in
different locations. And they can
control the levels of the gene that's
being expressed, which is very important
here.
So um going back to
why I've told you about this. Well, we
started a work in the lab over 12 years
ago on trying to take advantage of these
switches for diseases where you have low
dosage. So if you have a gene that's
expressed at a lower dose, can we sort
of pump up the volume of a switch to fix
those diseases? And we started on these
types of diseases called Haplo
insufficient. HLO is half insufficient
is not enough. And so we have basically
two copies of a gene, one from mom, one
from dad. That leads to normal gene
levels. And if we have one copy that's a
loss of function, that leads to 50% and
that could lead to disease. And there's
actually 660 genes that lead to human
disease due to having just one copy and
a lot of severe epilepsies, cancer, and
many others. And the numbers could be
much higher. If you look at a lot of
genome sequencing that has been done in
humans, you see 3,000 genes where you
never see this. Basically, one gene
non-functional and one that's
functional. So, I'm assuming everybody's
heard about crisper that can come and
cut the DNA and change it. But here,
we've been using a different form of
crisper where there's two mutations in
crisper. And so, it can't work as a
scissors. It can't cut the DNA. But what
you can use it is a delivery truck to
bring things to a specific zip code in
the genome to a specific location. And
for example, you can bring it to these
promoters that I just told you, these
switches, and you can tag along with it
for the ride an activator, something
that will sort of pump up the volume of
that switch and just force it to make
more RNA, more protein. And that's been
called crisper A for crisper activation.
So going back to this model, you still
have one copy that's perfectly fine.
It's just not it's just giving you 50%.
So what if we target it with crisper A
and force it to make more RNA? Can we
fix those diseases with just one
functional copy? And so that worked very
nicely. We did it initially on obesity.
And you can see here on the left a mouse
that has one copy of a gene called sim 1
that leads it to be very very obese. And
in the middle you see a mouse that has
exactly the same genotype. So it should
be very obese but you can see that it
looks like a wild type mice suggesting
that this could work and not only on
this but on many other diseases. So over
the years we've been working on a few
other diseases. One of them recently was
published in nature three weeks ago
where we went after SCN2A which is the
top neuro one of the top
neurodedevelopmental genes in humans. We
did a very similar approach and we
managed to rescue action potential. We
also managed to rescue a neuronal age
and maturity even in more adult mice
suggesting that here also similar to
Angelmen there could be a chance of
rescuing at a later stage. And we've
also rescued seizures. So you can see
here on the top in black is a wild type
mice. In blue you can see a mouse that's
has one copy and has seizures and then
all the way below you can see the
crisper for that where we rescue those
seizures using this approach.
So, and in addition, we also did this in
human cells in a dish where we
differentiate them to neurons just like
young wei showed before and we put them
in a dish for two months, grow them as
neurons and you could see on the left
the wild type in the middle of the heads
and on the right we managed to rescue
their action potential in the dish. So,
what does that all have to do with
Angelmen? Well, going back here with the
beautiful work that's being done here
for UB3A and hopefully that'll be fixed.
There'll still be a problem for many of
the patients that are missing and have
this micro deletion and missing 16 genes
which amongst them we think some of them
could be haplo insufficient and these in
red are the five that we think might be
problematic. Similar to the one gene
that I've showed you where you have just
one copy, that's not enough. Here we
have five. That's not enough. And so
what we could do, similar to before, is
upregulate not just one gene, but try to
upregulate basically all five at once.
And if we could do that, that could be
very beneficial for these individuals.
And so we went through all five genes
and basically designed guides where
we're transfecting and trying to
optimize these conditions for them. And
then we turn to a deno associated virus
which is used as a a delivery tool in
clinical studies and then made a a
vector that has all five genes. As you
can see this actually worked very
nicely. You can see all five genes and
all five of them we managed to
upregulate very nicely in these cells.
And so now what we're doing is we're
working with Young Way's lab to give him
these AAVs. And we're in the process now
of actually sending them to test in the
cell lines that he just showed you
before to see can we upregulate all five
genes and can that lead to a therapeutic
benefit.
In addition, we're also doing this in
mice and we're almost there. We have one
last gene, GABA G3, that's been very
problematic. It's hardly expressed in
any cell type that we've tried, but
we're trying now in mice to see can we
optimize it there. And once we do that,
we'll go to yet I think another mouse
model that wasn't mentioned where there
is the deletion but UB3A is rescued in
that and see can we rescue all of that
in these mice again with young ways lab.
So that's where we are at the moment and
I hope that next year we'll finally have
phenotypic results for this. Finally, I
want to thank my amazing lab who's doing
this, her amazing collaboration with
Young Ways Lab and also Allison in
particular who really jumpst started
this project and put us all together and
without her none of this would have been
done and I should mention that if this
works there are 200 syndromes in humans
that are caused by micro deletions and
so this will not only be amazing for
Angelmen but amazing for another 200
diseases. So thank you Alison.
That was great and and very well
understood. And so, as you can see,
we're we're moving there, but it's a
process and it takes time. Um, but we're
getting there. And hopefully next year
we can share with you our approach and
how we think about translating that into
humans and how we can actually
upregulate some of these genes.