So our next speaker is Dr. Wayne
Chadwick. He's coming to us from Helix
and he's going to talk to us about the
power of AI in drug discovery and how
they found some repurposed candidates in
order to think about how we can treat
Angelman syndrome. So here we go.
Perfect. Thank you.
Right. Hi everyone. My disclaimer is I
work for Helix and at Helix we do drug
discovery a little bit differently. We
use artificial intelligence and machine
learning technology to predict which
drugs could potentially treat a rare
disease. And these are drugs which are
already on the market. They're approved
for different indications and we use our
algorithms to determine which of these
drugs we could reposition into a
particular rare disease such as Angelin
syndrome.
We've got about a 50% hit rate with the
drugs we predict for each of our
particular rare diseases we work on and
we've uncover typically between one to
five uh novel mechanisms for each of the
diseases including and syndrome.
We we are a clinical stage biotech
company. Um we focus on rare and
pediatric oncology as well as uh rare
neurology. And last time I spoke to you
uh I gave you an update on uh our lead
candidate for Angelman syndrome which is
0553.
This is an existing drug again which was
approved for a separate indication which
we were hoping to reposition into
syndrome. It was really potent. It was
really impressive. It it it improved
multiple uh symptoms or phenotypes in
the mouse model.
The only problem was it was really
designed for short-term use and it
wasn't really designed for long-term
chronic use. But we were confident that
we could overcome that problem by
reformulating the drug. And that means
changing how the drug is absorbed by the
body and distributed throughout the
body. And we did this with our partners
TRX Bioscience who had a lot of
experience in reformulation.
However, it became quite evident early
on that the physical chemical properties
basically the structure of 0553 was
somewhat unique and it didn't allow to
be reformulated correctly. Basically, it
wasn't stable when we doed in the animal
and because of this we sort of had to
abandon it which was unfortunate but we
were really confident in the mechanism
which was driving or promoting or
improving the symptoms in an mouse. So
we thought we'll go back and look at
other drugs which have the same
mechanism to see if we could identify a
drug which was as effective as 0553
but maybe was able to be dosed over a
long period of time or would allow us to
reformulate it so that we could dose it
for a long period of time. But we needed
a way to compare these drugs with one
another and for that we needed to set up
an in vitro screen which we've heard
about today. So for this we used
angelman mouse neurons who have which
have a unique morphology. They have very
different uh type or or different
structure particularly with their
dendritic spines. Dendritic spines are
basically just the tiny little bumps on
the branches of neurons and they're very
important for neurons to communicate
with one another.
Now these angan mouse neurons like the
human neurons have fewer dendritic
spines and the dendritic spines that
they do have are mostly immature and
there's very few mature dendritic spines
and these factors means that the neurons
are just unable to communicate as
effectively as a healthy neuron would
be. And we knew that 0553 pro from the
previous work we had done was able to
not only increase the dendritic spine
numbers but also promote the matur
maturation of these dendritic spines so
that these neurons after treatment were
indistinguishable from healthy neurons
in terms of their morphology.
So we identified 18 drugs which had uh
the same or similar mechanism to 0553
and we tested them in this uh in this
assay and we identified 10 drugs which
were highly potent or as potent as 0553
and then we further sort of triaged
these drugs. We looked at their chronic
use potential, their distribution
profile, you know, if they got into the
brain at high enough concentrations and
their reformulation and commercial
potential. And we identified from this
we've got we landed on three drugs which
we wanted to investigate further. One
was an active metabolite of a drug which
is currently on the market. The other
one was a shelved asset and that means
that this particular drug had actually
reached a phase three clinical trial for
a separate indication but the company
which was progressing it decided to
abandon it for commercial reasons. But
it was safe and it was actually useful
and and can be used chronically so it
doesn't need to be reformulated. So
that's quite exciting for us because
that means this drug can transition into
and syndrome quite quickly.
The other is another drug which is on
the market already but it's only
available through prescription.
So this is a data of the dendritic
spines. So I won't go into it but
suffice to say that all three drugs
improved the number of dendritic spines
in the angel neurons and also promoted m
maturation of these dendritic spines. Uh
so that these neurons were basically
indistinguishable
in terms of their morphology from uh
healthy neurons and that means that
these neurons could effectively
communicate better. But next we wanted
to see how these drugs actually fared in
when we do it in an angelin mouse. So we
did this. We uh dosed the the drugs for
around two weeks prior to putting them
through a battery or behavior tests. We
looked at motor deficits. So we put them
in an open field and assessed their
mobility. We assessed how many marbles
they could bury. We also looked at their
grip strength, fallen grip strength. We
assessed motor control. And we looked at
their balance and coordination on a
rotor rod. So seeing how long an animal
can stay on an accelerating rod and this
apparatus also allows us to measure
motor learning. And then we also
measured their cognition
using the object recognition test. So
seeing how the animals are able to
differentiate between two objects.
So this is the data. So let me just
orientate you to these graphs. The white
bar are the healthy mice and that's what
we're trying to achieve with the drug
treatment. The gray bar is the angelman
untreated animals and kind of want to
move away from that that level as as
much as possible with treatment. So if
we just look at the distance moved in
the open field, we see that helix B and
Helix C treatment drugs increase the
mobility of the animals in almost
comparable to what we see in the healthy
animals. Surprisingly, Helix A was not
as effective, but all three drugs were
able to increase the ability of the
animals to bury marbles significantly
better than the the Angelin untreated
group. And again, Helix B and C
performed uh much better than Helix A.
Surprisingly, none of the drugs improved
the grip strength, but all three drugs
were able to improve the motor control
in the animals by looking at the
clasping. And again, Helix B and C were
much more superior improving the motor
control comparable levels that we see uh
with the healthy animals.
Now, this is really impressive to me.
This is the the rotor rod assay and in
this graph the dotted line represents
the angelman untreated group and then
the the gray bar on top or the gray line
on top indicates the healthy animals.
And if we just focus on day one, uh we
can see that all three drugs
significantly improved the balance and
coordination of the animals. So the
animals were able to stay on the this
accelerating rotor rod for a
significantly longer period of time. But
what's really impressive is again helix
BNC groups, their balance and
coordination is indistinguishable from
from the healthy animals. And then if we
look at each day of testing, so if we
test the these animals on the rotor rod
for days two to five, we see that the
balance and coordination of these
animals improves with each day of
testing for helix B and C. And this is
indicative of improved motor learning,
which again is really really impressive.
Uh helix A again was was less effective
at this.
And all three drugs were able to improve
cognition. So all three uh drug
treatments groups were able to to
distinguish between uh two objects. Um
so we've got an improvement in
recognition memory here.
So just to conclude um helix B and helix
C helix B being the shelved asex helix C
being the prescribed drug we're able to
restore motor control coordination and
memory in the mass back to levels that
we see with the healthy animals. And
this is really impressive. We've got two
drugs which could potentially move into
the clinic quite quickly here. Helix A
was less effective and he improved a
certain amount of phenotypes.
Um, and just to reiterate, Helix B is
suitable for chronic use. We don't have
to mess around with reformulation for
this. So again, they can move quite
quickly into the clinic. Helix A and C
does however require reformulation. But
the good news is we've already started
some of that reformulation work and the
reformulation is stable and we've
already seen improved amount of uh drug
in the brains of mice with the
reformulation and we're hoping that that
equates to improved e efficacy uh
particularly for helix A.
So just to say again that helix B and C
look look promising and we're hoping to
be some somewhere close to being in the
clinic by sometime next year. Um but it
all depends on uh licensing discussions
with the the holders of the um the shelf
asset. So thank you.
See, so I think if you didn't understand
in vitro and in vivo, you would not have
no clue what he just said. But because
you listened so carefully this morning
that was very clear that we have
potentially some downstream targets that
could affect because this is not
replacing UV3A but that could have an
impact on some of the symptoms of
Angelman syndrome. So that's exciting
very promising and when it's a
repurposed drug it may have already been
through some of the safety assessments
that allow you to get from mouse to
human a bit faster. That's also very
exciting.