So now we're going to shift gears
totally um for the rest of the session
to human application and really talk a
bit about endpoints meaningfulness and
how we think about the assessments that
we're doing on our kids and how to best
understand them, support them and be
able to interpret them. So our next
speaker is Dr. Sarah Nelson Potter and
she's going to be speaking about
adaptive functioning in individuals with
Angelman Syndrome. And one thing I'm I I
would be remiss not to mention is that
you may have just received 250 emails
from fast and if you did that was um
likely because of the government
shutdown. So we can blame the government
shutdown for that. Um but no apparently
something happened with Cvent and a
bunch of emails warning you about the
flights went out to the entire listerve
and um ultimately there may be a lot of
emails coming your way. So you're going
to hear from us a lot in the next five
minutes and for that we apologize. Um,
so Sarah Potter, please come in for
that.
>> Thanks, Alison, for the introduction.
Um, I'm really super happy to be here
today to tell you about some of our
recent work in uh aimed at better
understanding adaptive functioning in
individuals living with Angelman
syndrome. And so adaptive behavior
refers to the everyday skills that we
all need to live independently. This
includes how we communicate with others,
how we take care of our own personal
needs. Things like eating, toileting,
hygiene,
um how we do chores around the house,
preparing food, managing our daily
routines at school, at work, at home,
and in the community, how we interact
with others socially, motor skills, and
so on. And we know that individuals
living with Angelman syndrome experience
significant deficits in adaptive
behavior that significantly affect
quality of life both for the affected
individual and for their caregivers as
you all know and this makes adaptive
behavior a key target for uh change in
therapeutic development in as
so many of you have participated in a
vin assessment before and the vin 3 is
the current edition of the vin and it's
considered is a gold standard caregiver
reported measure of adaptive
functioning. It measures adaptive
functioning in four domains.
Communication, daily living skills,
socialization, and motor skills. Today
we're going to talk a little bit about
both receptive and expressive
communication. Receptive receptive
communication being how an individual
understands language and expressive
communication involving how an
individual uses sounds, gestures, and
words. Um, we're going to talk about
daily living skills in the personal
subdomain. So that includes toileting,
hygiene, dressing, and eating. We'll
talk a little bit about interpersonal
relationships. So that's things like
early social behavior, imitation,
recognizing and expressing emotions, and
we're going to talk about both gross and
fine motor. So, we're going to talk
about gross motor being how an
individual uses their arms and legs for
movement and coordination and fine motor
being how an individual uses their hands
and fingers to manipulate objects. And
so, a few years ago, we had a study
looking at adaptive skills of
individuals with Angelman syndrome using
the Vinand 2, but some significant
improvements were made between these two
versions of the Violin. So the violin 3
has more items that measure early skills
which is really important for our
population. It has different scoring
criteria and most importantly it
accounts for AAC use in the expressive
communication subdomain. So you know how
important that is. So the aims of this
study are to describe how adaptive
functioning changes over time in
individuals with Angelmen syndrome and
to examine whether changes in adaptive
skills over time differ by molecular
subtype. All right. So we had 331
individuals in this study. Uh little
less than twothirds had a deletion
subtype and it was relatively evenly
split between males and females. age at
the first visit was um a little bit over
11 years on average. Um you can see it
ranged from six months to over 50 years
of age. Um which is really great. Um at
the last visit the average age was
around 12 and a half. Um and on average
participants had two visits but this
ranged from 1 to six. And so caregivers
completed the comprehensive interview
form of the violin 3 in the Angelman
syndrome natural history study in
Friious um in the brain development
study in uh Mark Shen's lab or at the
UNCC clinic and all of these data were
contributed to the latter database and
we access these data for this study. So
to address these aims we used mixed
effects models with restricted maximum
likelihood estimation. This isn't um all
that meaningful to many of you, but I'll
explain a little bit why this is. So, we
examine Vineland growth scale values,
which I'm going to talk a little bit
more about in a second, in relation to
the natural log of age and molecular
subtype. So, we use these models to
account for repeated assessments from
the same participants over time. And
this log transformation of age helped us
capture the faster gains that we saw
early on and the slower rate of change
that happens later, which you'll see in
just a second. So, a little bit more
about growth scale values. They provide
us with an absolute measure of adaptive
skill level and they're derived directly
from raw scores. They're not ageormed.
So, they allow us to track true within
individual change over time even when
standard scores are staying the same or
they're at the floor of the assessment.
And so, really, this just means that we
can observe more subtle changes in
development that's not often allowed
with some of our standardized tests. And
GSVs have equal interval scaling,
meaning that a one unitit change has the
same meaning across the entire scale.
And this makes them very well suited for
tracking growth over time within
individuals. So let's get to our
results. We are looking at these plots
now. We've got receptive communication
on the left and expressive communication
on the right. On our x axis, we've got
age in years ranging from zero to over
50. And then our GSVs are on the Y ais.
So our individuals with a deletion
subtype are represented here in blue.
Those with a UB3A mutation in green and
those with UPD or an imprinting center
defect are in red. And so for both of
these subdomains, those with a non-deion
had a higher level of skills compared to
those with a deletion. In receptive
communication, we saw that the rate of
growth in receptive skills did not
differ significantly between the subtype
groups. So you can see that their
trajectories are running parallel with
each other. However, in the expressive
uh subdomain, we saw that the rate of
growth was steeper in those with a
non-deion compared to those with a
deletion. So those with the non-deion
have a faster rate of growth early in
development. You can see it's a little
bit of a steeper trajectory.
In terms of personal daily living
skills, we see that again that those
with a non-deion have higher level
skills compared to those with a
deletion. And here the rate of growth is
actually steeper in the UB3A mutation
group compared to the deletion group. So
we see a faster rate of growth in those
early years relative to those with the
deletion.
In terms of interpersonal relationships,
we again see that uh that those with the
non-deion had a higher level of skills
compared to those with a deletion. Um
but we like we saw with the receptive
communication subdomain, the rate of
growth did not differ significantly
between the subtype groups. So again,
they're sort of running parallel with
each other.
And for both gross gross and fine motor
we see again that the non-deion groups
demonstrated a higher level of skills
compared to those with a deletion. And
again the rate of growth is not
significantly different between the
groups. They're running in parallel with
each other. So um we found that similar
to previous research individuals with
non-deion subtypes demonstrate a higher
level of skills compared to those with
deletion subtypes. There are some
differences between subtypes in the rate
of growth in various subdomains.
And we see these faster gains early in
development and slower change later on.
So the most rapid progress is happening
early in development and then gains
become slower over time, but they are
still happening. Individuals are still
gaining skills and they're demonstrating
growth in all adaptive domains. And this
really justifies a need for continued
services. So things like speech,
occupational and physical therapies as
well as academic academic modifications
which can provide opportunities for
sustained development.
And so we're next going to look at how
seizures affect the development of
adaptive skills and we're going to
examine whether other factors affect
adaptive skills and growth. And so I
just want to thank my colleagues at um
RTI and at Boston Children's Hospital
for helping to prepare this presentation
for today. Mark Shen at UNCC for
contributing data, the RO uh team at
Friezia for contributing data and our
Angelman syndrome natural history study
sites. Uh thanks most of all to all of
you families who participate in research
and thanks for your attention.
[Applause]
Thanks Sarah for that. And I think it's
important for families to understand
that that's information we've known for
a long time, but that's been based off
of the Vinand 2 and the Vinand 3. The
only reason that's important for you to
know the difference is because in the
current clinical trials where we're
trying to compare to the natural history
of the disease, we need to compare it to
the Violin 3. So having this now data
set is really important for sponsors as
they're looking at the use of island 3
in the clinical trials. One other thing
I just want to highlight for families
which I think is incredibly important
and often in these research
presentations um isn't really recognized
is the fact that we're dissecting out in
this enormous magnified way the
difference between deletion and
non-deion. And I guarantee you some of
you are even dissecting out the
difference between UPDICD and mutation
and wondering why the mutation line is
marginally above the UPD line. Um, but
you need to mag out a moment and realize
that they didn't show you actually how
that compares to neurotypically
developing peers that are age matched.
And if you were to mag out, the
difference between deletion and
non-deion becomes much much smaller. The
difference between UPD and ICD becomes
practically non-existent. And the
difference between Angelmen as a whole
and neurotypical is tremendous. And so I
think I have heard and as I I speak to
sponsors or people getting into the
field, I am often asked, well, it seems
like nonddion are not nearly as severe
as deletion. So maybe we need to focus
on the deletion. But what people need to
hear is that they're all really severe.
It's just that when you blow it out and
look at the details from a statistical
perspective, they're they're marginally
different. And so you can see those
differences. But what I really try to
explain to people is that regardless of
their genotype, they're non-verbal.
Regardless of their genotype, they will
not live an independent life. They will
have challenges with self-care and they
will will have challenges with fine
motor and gross motor skills. Yes,
they're different. but they're still
quite severe and I don't want to
underestimate that and the severity of
that and the implications that we all
want more regardless of the genotype.
So, it's important to just back it up
for a moment and put into perspective
for the industry partners in the room
that are thinking about how they're
going to design their trials because all
of these kids compared to neurotypically
developing peers are quite different in
a very similar way. So I just want to
make that very