Our next speakers um we actually have
two even though only one is in the
agenda. It's um Ann Wheeler who's going
to be with us virtually because
unfortunately at the last minute she
couldn't join us but we have Angelie
Sadwani who's going to come and they're
going to split the presentation and
they're going to talk to us about best
practices to support your child during
the Bailey and the vin assessments and
that is very important in clinical
trials particularly because some of
these measures are going to be the
primary endpoint. So really getting the
best possible data is absolutely
critical. So with that, Anelie, come on
up. And if we can bring up
>> Ann. Great.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks so much, Alison. While Anelie is
coming up, I'm not sure if you can hear
me, but I wanted to um say I'm very
sorry that I'm not there with you all
today. Um but I will be there tomorrow.
So I hope to um see many of you at the
gala.
So, um, Angelina and I wanted to spend
some time and talk to you all about what
the best practices are for you if your
child is participating in a clinical
trial and you are in the room watching a
Bailey or you're being asked to do a
violin.
So, as Allison mentioned and as you've
heard throughout the day programming, um
we have multiple clinical trials that
are either ongoing or in process of
being started. And all of these trials
are going to use rigorous methods um to
ensure that treatment safety and
effectiveness are are the primary um of
primary importance. And so it's going to
be um critical that those of us who are
doing some of the assessments and
helping support the trials um really
adhere strictly to the rules and
administrative pro protocols. And this
can be frustrating sometimes for
families because you may hear us say
things that sound kind of awkward or
you're like, "Oh, I wish you would say
it a different way." Um just
unfortunately the way we have to do it
is very standardized and it can it can
um uh not always make the most sense to
a parent. So we wanted to make sure to
note that. Um, as you've heard,
improving cognition, communication, and
motor skills are major goals um for all
of our current and emerging treatments
for Angelmen syndrome. And the clinical
outcome assessments that we administer
are really key. These are essential for
us knowing if the drug is making a
difference for the individual and for
you as a family member. And if we have
the wrong assessment or if the
administration is done wrong or if the
information that's provided isn't
accurate, it can actually increase the
chance of the trial failing. And this is
true even if the treatment actually
really does work. And so we want to be
very very careful that the way we do
these assessments is um accurate and uh
comprehensive. So the two measures that
we're going to talk about today are the
Bailey scales of infant de and toddler
development and the vinand adaptive
behavior skills. Both of which you've
probably heard much about. So the Bailey
is a direct performance-based assessment
of core developmental skills. So these
are things like um early cognition,
language, both receptive and expressive,
and motor. So both fine and gross motor.
These are all similar to the same skills
you just heard Sarah talk about, but
these are things that we're directly
assessing in the room. Um and so the
things that we're do with the child on
the Bailey are really trying to help us
understand how the individual problem
solves and uses things like spatial
visual spatial skills, symbolic
representation, and object permanence in
order to approach novel tasks. And it
actually takes quite a bit of training
in order to learn how to administer this
test um and how to make sure that you're
getting the best response from it.
Um the reason we use the Bailey is multi
there's multiple reasons. Um the main
reason is that it does not rely heavily
on things like verbal skills or motor
planning both of which are challenges
for individuals with Angelmen syndrome.
So we know that every individual with
Angelmen can do some items on the Bailey
which allows us to have a starting point
by which we can see some growth. Um the
Bailey has been shown to be sensitive to
change um in response to development as
well as response to treatments. And the
most important thing for us right now is
that we have lots and lots of data to
help us understand the natural
trajectory of individuals with Angelmen
on this measure. Um and so because it's
being used in the clinical trials, we
have a nice comparison group um to be
able to look at relative to the
treatment.
So one of the things that I think is
important to understand is that when
we're assessing with the Bailey, we're
actually assessing foundational skills
that are really critical for the
development of higher order skills that
we use in our daily life for say
activities of daily living or academic
learning or regul regulating our
behaviors. And it really starts with the
exploration we have with our senses um
and our movement in the world. And we
interact with the world and and start to
develop these additional skills. We
develop we develop attention to certain
things. We learn about cause and effect.
Um we and then because we have cause and
effect and object permanence and visual
attention, we start to be able to do
things like problem solve and imitate
and develop uh play skills. Um and then
ultimately develop this concept
acquisition that leads to more academic
learning. And while this is sort of
developed in generally developed in a
linear fashion, we do know that
individuals with Angelmen are not
necessarily gaining these skills in a
linear fashion. We see um kids who have
great memory skills but really can't
imitate. And so um we're trying to look
at all of these types of skills on the
Bailey in order to help us understand
where there may be rooms for growth.
So, just to give a little example of
those sort of foundational cognitive
skills and how they play out in daily
life, um, let's say you have a child
that wants to get his favorite snack
from the top of a closed cabinet. What
kind of skills would the child need to
be able to do that? Well, they would
need object permanence. They would need
to know that that object, that snack,
exists even when they can't see it. They
would need to have memory. They would
need to know remember that that snack is
on top of a cabinet. they would need to
come up with some sort of way to solve
the problem. And in this case, they may
use imitation because they've seen their
mom or another person bring a chair
over, climb up on the chair in order to
obtain something high. And so, they want
to go ahead and imitate that to uh
problem solve this this situation.
So, um we're going to go through some
things we want you um as caregivers to
remember about the Bailey administration
and then we're going to do some dos and
don'ts. So, as far as in BA
administration goes, it's really
important to remember that we're going
to be using materials and toys that were
designed for younger individuals for
infants and toddlers.
Um, and as I noted before, um, the
examiners will have to maintain
standardization and so there will be
very specific ways in which we have to
present the material and ask questions.
The materials that we're using are
intended to evoke interest and assess
how your your loved one with Angelmen
engages with the materials and objects.
We know we're not probably going to be
getting peak performance and so that's
not really our intention.
Um so what we're really trying to
understand is what the child can do
independently which means we really want
to be limiting um any sort of prompts or
coaching.
And we want to be very clear in
acknowledging that for every single
child that takes this test, there are
going to be some tasks that are easy and
there are going to be some tasks that
are difficult. And there will be some
tasks that are motivating and there will
be some tasks that are not motivating.
We don't expect all individuals to do
every single thing we we put in front of
them. That is not an expectation of
anybody on this test.
And we want to make very clear that you
as a caregiver who is accompanying your
child to this assessment are really
critical to an access successful
administration. And this is m for
multiple reasons. One of which being
that you provide necessary information
and behavior support for your child and
also for the examiner to be able to use
strategies that will help your child
provide their best performance. And in
addition to that, you are a trusted,
calming, and safe presence for your
child, which is absolutely critical,
especially when there is an anxiety
producing situation like being assessed.
So, we have some dues, things we want
you, we really want you as a caregiver
to do when you come for the a we do want
you to ensure your child is well rested
and fed before they come for testing. We
want to make sure that you um have
informed the examiner if there's
anything that's off about your child
that day. It doesn't mean we have to
stop the test, but it helps us
understand um whether or not we really
are getting the best performance from
your child.
We really want you to show as much
enthusiasm as you can about the
activities um in front of your child. We
don't want them to feel like you don't
think that this is a good thing for them
for you them to be doing.
We want you to encourage your child to
participate and engage with the
examiner.
We want you to bring motivating items or
snacks that we can use to help reinforce
them.
We want you to help. We want you to
share any sort of helpful behavior
strategies that you know work with your
child. Please share those with us so we
can try them out.
We want you to let us know if your child
needs a break. Sometimes we know very
clearly they need a break and sometimes
we're just we don't know your child as
well as you do. We need you to tell us.
And please answer any of the examiner's
questions as honestly and accurately as
possible.
And after the session, we will ask you
to tell us about your child's
performance and how much the child's
performance uh reflects what you see in
day-to-day life or if they were really
just very off. We want to know that.
So, there are some things we definitely
don't want you to do.
We don't want you to provide hints or
clues on any items unless we ask you
explicitly to do so.
We don't want you to distract your child
unless we're asking you to redirect
them.
We don't want you to help your child
complete any task unless exam again we
are explicitly asking you to do that.
Please don't use any punishments or
threats.
Please don't show anxiety or
disappointment. Um, as much as you can,
even if you feel disappointment, try to
hide that in the in the moment.
And please don't defer to us. If you
think your child needs a break or is
becoming increasingly agitated and you
don't see the examiner taking action,
please let us know. We want to hear from
you about what your child needs.
>> And now, um, Angelie is going to take
over and talk a little bit more about
what we would like you to do when it
comes to the alignment.
>> Thank you so much, An. Can you all hear
me? Okay, great. So, I'm going to be
talking about about the wine. Sarah
already provided a great overview of it.
It assesses functioning in day-to-day
life. It's specifically interested in
what a child individual can do
independently on their own to take care
of themselves and interact with others.
It's used in several studies in
syndrome. There are several domains that
are assessed. communication which is
receptive and expressive communication,
written skills, their activities of
daily living, how they take care of
themselves, what kind of things do they
do in their home, their socialization
skills, how they get along with others,
and their fine and gross motor skills.
The vin administration is conducted as
an interview between the examiner and a
caregiver who knows the individual well.
What are some of the things you want to
keep in mind when you do the vin
interview?
We're going to be asking you questions
about skills both above and below your
child's level. So, be prepared for that.
We want to get a sense of how your child
is doing independently on their own
without helper support. When you're
thinking about your responses, think
about all the ways your child
communicates, their sounds, their
gestures, their ASC device.
The Wand is essentially a dialogue
between you and the clinician. We're
trying to get a comprehensive picture of
your child's functioning across domains.
So, what are some of the things that you
do want to keep in mind while doing it?
In terms of scheduling the interview,
you want to schedule the interview at a
time where you can be focused and
engaged. The interview typically lasts
an hour. Choose a quiet environment to
minimize distractions during the
interview.
If your child is present, have
activities to keep them entertained or
someone else to keep them entertained so
you're not juggling the child and
managing the interview at the same time.
When responding, answer each question as
honestly and accurately as possible.
Focus on the child's current skills,
what the child does do right now.
Reflect on what your child does do
without prompting or support and what
they do need help with support and
prompting.
Consider your child's behavior in
different settings. They may be
different at home and school in social
environments.
Given a sense of how frequently the
behavior occurs, whether it occurs
sometimes, whether it occurs all the
time, provide specific examples to
illustrate your point. Ask for
clarifications if questions if a
question is unclear.
Tell the examiner if you need a break.
What are the things that we don't want
you during a vinand interview? We don't
want you to rush your answers. We just
don't want you to speed it up. We don't
want you to guess on any item. If you're
not sure, just discuss this with the
examiner. We don't want you to give g
vague or generalized responses. We
really want concrete examples.
Don't exaggerate or minimize your
child's skills. Don't base your answers
what you hope the child can do or what
they do did in the past. You we really
want to focus over the current skills
that your child does do.
We hope these guidelines are helpful to
you as you do the Bailey and the vin in
the clinical trials. And we want to
thank our team Sarah Potter and Bach
with all the help with the Bailey and
violent administration. Thank you.
That was great for both of you. You
know, we take so many of these and we
forget the importance of consistency and
and you really laid out beautifully how
we can best support our kids. And I have
to say I'm in I feel very guilty because
I you know I go into the Bailey and I
see the baby and I the first thing I say
is like oh my god not the creepy baby
and then Quincy throws the baby but like
maybe I made her throw the baby because
I hate the baby and I actually maybe
influence the test and that's wrong. I
should love the baby so that she loves
the baby. So going forward, nobody
called the baby the creepy baby because
it is a little bit of a creepy