So, next I'm excited to introduce Dr.
Kim Goodspeed, who leads the GTX 102
clinical trial at Ultragenics. She's
going to be talking to us about um a
framework that we've heard about before,
but not explicitly called the MDRI or
the multi-dommain responder index, which
really can capture some of the
meaningful changes in Angelmen Syndrome.
So, I'm going to let her explain to you
exactly what that is.
Almost there. Hello everybody. What
great talks we've had today, right? Um,
so as Allison mentioned, I'm Kim
Goodspeed. I'm uh the clinical lead for
GTX 102 at Ultragenics. Uh, really
honored to be here. I'm a child
neurologist by training and um just
thrilled to be getting to work with this
community still. So, first and foremost,
thank you. Uh, thanks for being here,
for listening. thanks to all our um
families who have participated in our
trials and all of our investigators and
your study teams who have made those
trials happen. So without you guys um
none of this data would exist and
because we're um have some opportunities
here, I wanted to be able to dive into
the methodology behind our MDRI. So
that's really what we're going to kind
of focus on today is what is this tool
that we've kind of shown you a couple of
times now. Um but we can dive into it a
little bit deeper. But first and
foremost um GTX 102 is not an approved
product. Right? So it's an
investigational drug and the data we are
going to look at today is from an uh
interim data from an open label study.
So it's not definitive. And again I
really want to focus on the methodology
today and kind of what are the nuts and
bolts of the MDRI the multi-dommain
responder index.
But first, can I also tell you that the
reason we think about things like the
MDRI is because we know that in
especially rare disease clinical trials,
selecting a single primary efficacy
endpoint can be really challenging. But
that's generally how clinical trials are
set up. So they're designed to evaluate
efficacy based on this one symptom and
you measure it in one particular way and
you need to have most of the trial
participants improve in that particular
symptom.
So in order to demonstrate that
therapeutic benefit on that particular
symptom, you probably need to make sure
that most of the individuals in the
trial have that symptom when they come
into the trial. Well, in some scenarios,
that might end up narrowing the
population of individuals that you get
to study. And then you get into some
questions around well how much can we
generalize this data if we had to limit
our study population to this one
particular symptom.
But even more than that I think we're in
a new era right we learned all kinds of
interesting things about ASOS gene
therapies um crisper therapies this
morning these are all designed to treat
the underlying cause of Angelman
syndrome which we know doesn't manifest
as just one symptom. So if we're
treating the underlying cause, you can
imagine that individuals are going to
benefit in different ways because they
have different symptoms at the
beginning. And so we know that even
drugs that exist today can impact
patients in many many different ways,
but the trials that were used to approve
those drugs really had to rely on that
single primary efficacy endpoint. So our
solution is the MDRI, so the
multi-dommain responder index, and it's
a way to evaluate the data looking at
all these different symptom domains at a
single time um in one analytical tool.
So let's talk about what it is. So
again, it's an analytical strategy. It's
a tool that we can use to see different
symptoms and how individual participants
from that trial respond to each of those
different symptoms and then kind of
tally up the data to see the overall
responder rate.
So, it's important that each of these
symptoms that we're measuring are
clinically distinct and are important.
And so, these are the five we've
identified for Angelman syndrome. And
we'll talk a little bit more about that,
but most of that data actually came from
y'all again. So from your disease
concept studies, your natural history
studies, you have taught us what is
important and what we need to measure.
And so those are the key aspects that
we've focused on. Now what is the MDRI
not? It is not a composite endpoint
which it often gets kind of confused or
lumped with. The difference that I think
is the main difference is that in the
MTRI we get to measure different
symptoms with different endpoints and
they're all thought to be clinically
meaningful for the population. A
composite endpoint is really taking one
symptom but measuring that symptom in a
lot of different ways. So this coronary
artery example here at the bottom is
showing you that we're have all these
different ways that we can measure
coronary artery disease um from kind of
milder to more severe ways of measuring
it versus taking different symptoms and
manifestations of Angelmen syndrome. So
it's a little bit of a nuance difference
but an important one.
So how does it work? Um you initially
identify anywhere from four to six. We
picked the sweet spot of five for this
trial. Um clinically meaningful domains.
So symptoms and they need to be
important. So they have to be things
that you care about as a community and
they need to be independent and be able
to measure it independently.
And then we identify a clinical endpoint
that appropriately measures each of
those symptoms. And then we define a
meaningful score difference. So, what is
the smallest change that we think would
be an indicator of improvement or
worsening? And then we assign a score to
that. So, here in the middle of the
screen, we've got the pink, the white,
and the green boxes. So, [snorts] if
that meaningful score difference is met
or surpassed in the direction of
improvement, we assign that a score of
plus one. If it's met or surpassed in
the direction of worsening, we assign it
a score of minus one and give it a pink
color. If it falls somewhere in the
middle, we say, "We're not sure if
that's clinically meaningful or not. We
don't know if that's a true treatment
effect." And so we uh leave that box
white and we give it a score of zero.
You tally up all of these scores to give
you your net responder uh net response.
So like in this little theoretical
example here, uh domain one is a plus
one because they improved. Uh z domain
two and five, there wasn't a clear
change, so that's a zero point. Three
gets a plus one. four is a minus one.
Sum that up, you get a plus one net
score.
Then you look at this through the entire
group, apply some statistical analyses
to it, and decide if it's statistically
significant or not. And we've already
said that each of these boxes is
clinically meaningful. So then we get to
apply the statistical analysis on top of
that. And then we display the results as
a responder index. So for Angelman
Syndrome, we started with the domains.
these really truly came from your
conceptual model. So what are the things
that are the unmet need and things that
we can measure in a trial um and that
are important to you that they could
potentially improve with treatment. So
sleep, motor, behavior, communication,
cognition. And then um the next sorry
we've got some formatting stuff that was
not on my laptop but um then we identify
which endpoints we assign to each of
those. So this data comes from our phase
one two data. We measured for example
sleep in many different ways and then we
look at our data and say which one do we
think is actually capturing what
families care about and we also ask you
which of these measures seems like it's
capturing what you care about and what
do you care about and then we land on
which endpoint we think is the most
appropriate to assign to that clinical
domain. So in this case, we used our um
Angelman syndrome severity assessment
scale. It's a scale that's completed by
the clinician and we're using the sleep
domain
um and so forth throughout um each of
those clinical endpoints. Then we define
the uh MSD or the meaningful score
difference. This has been term has
shifted a lot over time. So you may have
heard it called an MID or minimal
important difference before. There's a
number of different acronyms, but
essentially all it means is what is that
scores threshold that we think if we go
beyond it, that would mean a clinical
improvement that would be meaningful to
you. So, they're all listed here and
that again formatting is coming out kind
of wonky. Um, but it's a plus or minus
one for the first two, a plus or minus
six for the next two, and a plus or
minus five for the last one.
And then we look at it across all of
these kids. Um this is a sampling from
our cohorts A and B. And so to orient
you to that graph, uh we have each
column representing an individual
symptom domain that's being measured by
one of those clinical endpoints. Each
row is a participant
and then we code each box by that color.
So if they met or surpassed the
meaningful score difference in the uh
improvement direction, we color it
green. If they met passed in the
worsening direction, we color it pink.
And if there was not a clear change or
wasn't a sufficient change to meet
either of those thresholds, we leave it
white. Every green box gets a plus one,
every white box gets a zero, and every
pink box gets a minus one. So let's look
at a couple of examples.
So participant one from the top of that
last graph, they had a improvement in
each one of these domains. So surpassed
each of those clinically meaningful
thresholds in the direction of
improvement. So 1 plus 1 plus 1 plus 1
plus 1 gives us five. That's the max
score.
Another participant though that had some
variable responses improved in three
domains that are all colored green. They
didn't have a clear change in um two
domains. And so that gives us an overall
score of plus three for this individual.
And one more example. So we've got a
score uh a domain that wasn't clearly
changed. We've got two domains that met
or surpassed that uh clinical worsening
and we've got two domains that met or
surpassed clinical improvement and they
get a net score of zero. So it's a
really interesting way to be able to
look at all of these kids. I'm not
actually going to go back to this slide
one more time, but it's a nice way to
look at all these kids um from a bird's
eye view and Overall, you can see that
kids are responding in different ways.
Um, and some kids aren't responding in
certain domains. And we don't know if
that's because they didn't have that
symptom to begin with and it just was
never a problem, so it didn't need to
change or what exactly happened, but it
does give us a sense that we can get
these variable responses. The other nice
thing is you're not just limited to this
analysis. It's a super powerful tool in
conjunction with everything else we do
to analyze our data and be able to look
at everything on the continuous scale.
So we're looking at it in graphs where
we're plotting it out by group and
understanding what the group is also
doing on each one of these measures
individually. So hopefully I have shared
a little bit of the secret sauce behind
the MDRI. Um again it's it's a
analytical tool. It's a different way to
visualize the data and understand the
clinically meaningful improvements that
we see across multiple domains um using
a single tool. It allows for enrollment
of a broader population potentially and
allows you to also then look at safety
across a more diverse population which
can also help with our interpretability
and generalizability of all of these uh
results.
So we think it's a great tool. Um we
think it's especially great in
populations like yours that have complex
phenotypes, complex presentations, um,
and a really nice way to be able to
analyze the data. Thank you.
>> Thank you for that. And and thank you
for for willing the willingness and the
attempt to actually try to capture our
kids holistically rather than try to put
them in separate buckets of which we
know that Angelman syndrome is a diverse
and global disorder and holistic capture
of clinical domains that are of meaning
is incredibly important to these event.