Um, so our next speaker is uh Dr. Abby
Rder. She's going to be speaking to us
about the Orca, the observer reported
communication ability measure and really
trying to explain to us what is a
minimal meaningful change. And it's very
important to try to understand that
because we take these measures and we
spend a lot of time in these assessments
and the community rallied in 300 people
filling out the original survey, another
200 people filling out another survey
over the last five, six years and then
again just recently in two weeks time we
had another 150 families more than that
filling out an additional survey in
order for her to collect this data with
the ultimate goal being for us to
understand what does a point change mean
for for our children. What does that
mean? Two points, three points, five
points. It means nothing to us. But if
we can understand if our kid were to
gain two points, that's a finger point.
That's an eye gaze. That's responding to
their name. That's responding to the
word yes or no. That's saying the word
yes or no with a headshake or a head
knot. All of those things are so
important. What do these scores actually
mean? So Aby's going to walk you through
some of the the the statistical methods
and the reasons why they did what they
did and they asked you to do those
incredible surveys. That was a lot of
work, but we're very grateful to
everybody that participated. So Abby,
please come and share with everybody the
results.
>> Hi
Okay. Um, yeah. So, like Allison said,
I'm going to present on the Orca
measure. Um, and specifically, you know,
we've talked about the Bailey and
Vineland, and you get these nice numbers
from them, but what do those actually
mean? So, both in terms of what's a
meaningful change, but then also in
terms of what is a score of 50, what is
a score of, you know, 35? Um, brief
disclosures.
Okay, tiny bit of background. So in
order to effectively measure any new
treatment, whatever it's for, it has to
be fit for purpose. What does that mean?
Essentially, it's measuring what we
intend for it to measure and it works in
the population that we are using it in.
Um, so in this case, that would be
Angelmen. And what we find is that a lot
of the measures that were developed were
developed for a verbal population. So
specifically for communication which is
one of the most important domains um the
my team at Duke developed the observer
reported communication ability measure
directly with input from caregivers and
fast organization leadership everyone to
make sure it was like the best measure
we could make reflecting what's actually
important to caregivers. Um it measures
three domains of communication
expressive receptive and pragmatic. So
expressive is like you know conveying
your needs, thoughts, emotions in
Angelmen normally through things like
eye gaze or pointing towards something
things like that. Receptive
communication which is showing that you
understand something that was said to
you. Um and then uh pragmatic or social
communication.
Um just to state this again. So funding
all came from fast. So this has all come
from you all. So thank you.
Um so while the orc itself was developed
using these super rigorous you know well
accepted in the field methods um you
know when we actually run this algorithm
to get these scores from it they don't
mean anything on their own. And so what
we have to do is basically develop these
things called vignettes or in this case
that's what we did um to show what these
distinct score regions and ranges um
actually mean. Um, so for example, you
might have a three-year-old with
Angelmen who has a score 55. How does
that actually compare to others for one
thing and then also if they change
scores later on? Um, is that meaningful
to the individual in their family? So
that's my objective here. And like I
said before, I'm going to be showing
some vignettes. Um,
and I'm not going to go too in depth
into the like fancy statistics behind
everything just because it gets pretty
complicated. But the basis of it is that
with the Orca, with this really complex
algorithm, we can get kind of the most
likely communication behaviors at every
single individual score. And using
those, we can make these pretty
vignettes.
Um, that will not come out this pretty.
This takes quite a bit of work to get
the pictures on it. Um, but we can do
this for any score. So here I'm going to
show 35, 50, and 65. But these can be
used for any score, any score change on
the orca. And these same methods can be
used for for other measures as well. Um,
so like I said before, this is
presenting a hypothetical child, Alex.
Um, and you know, some of the things
Alex is able to do, Alex is on kind of
the higher end of the low end of the
scale. Um, so 35. Um, Alex sometimes
communicates that he wants an object by
reaching or pointing, making a sound,
looking at the object, and then his
parent or bringing the object to his
parent. Um, for getting attention, Alex
almost always grabs, taps, pulls on
someone, or makes a sound, and that one
we will follow across kind of the score
range. Um, and then there's some other
skills. Um, in the bottom, uh, left
you'll see some skills that Alex isn't
able to do. um with the Orca and then
also with these vignettes, we wanted to
focus on what uh these kids couldn't do
as opposed to what they couldn't do. Um
but just note because this is slightly
on the lower end, part of what is on the
Orca is things that um you know, kids on
the higher end of the scale would be
able to do. So a score of 50, this is
right in the middle. Um and what we see
here with this child, Jamie, uh is Jamie
is able to use AAC devices. So that's
kind of a big characteristic of this
score. Um, looking at the get attention
category in the, uh, far left side over
here, um, uh, Jamie is sometimes able to
use a symbol on her device to get
attention from her parent. Now, to be
reflective of the wording on the orca,
we also include word approximations
here. Realistically, at a score 50,
you're probably not seeing word
approximations, but again, trying to be
consistent.
So, then Riley is on the higher end of
the scale, and we see even more
advancements. And I think you know the
big landmark with Riley is that she is
able to use one to three word or word
approximations. Um and then again
tracking kind of that uh get attention
category in the far left. Um she almost
always uses a symbol on her device or
word approximation to get attention. So
going from sometimes doing that to
always doing that. Um these will be all
put up on the poster that I have
outside. So if you wanted to read more
thoroughly into the different skills,
you're welcome to.
So this is great. we have these
vignettes,
what do they what what can they do for
us? And I think that that's the
important question is if we're going to
use the Orca in clinical trials, it's
great. It's developed, you know, really
with so much input by caregivers, we
want it to be the best measure possible.
We want to make sure that any changes
were used uh we're tracking with the
Orca are meaningful. And so that's
essentially what we did. We used those
vignettes and we presented them right
next to each other. So we did two
points, four points, six points and
eight points. Um and we presented them
straight to caregivers and said is this
a meaningful improvement? You know if
this is a hypothetical child with
Angelman syndrome and you know it
started at a score of 55 and then went
up to a score of 57. Of course not
showing them that that's the change.
Would that be meaningful to you? Um and
what we found is that at a score change
of two points over half of participants
in the study said that that would be
meaningful to them. Um, so
what does that actually look like? And I
think what's really interesting here is
that a twopoint change might seem
relatively small. Um, especially in the
context of, you know, the score range of
the orca, which goes from about 20 to
80. Um, but when we look at the actual
changes that would happen that would
correspond to a twopoint change, they
could be quite dramatic to daily life.
Um, so some examples of this would be
you might see someone go from responding
when told no or stop to also sometimes
following onestep directions. You might
see someone start sometimes answering
yes or no questions. So go from never
answering yes or no questions to
sometimes doing that. And then for those
who are already sometimes answering yes
or no questions, you might see them also
sometimes answering open-ended question,
which is a huge improvement in skill.
Um, with a three-point change, of
course, it includes all of those
twopoint changes as well. But what
you'll also find is some some kids that
maybe already start pretty high
functioning will start using symbols.
And then a four-point change, it gets
even bigger where you see again kids who
are relatively high functioning start to
use uh one to three word or word
approximations. This is not to say that
this is very very common at this level.
this is really only happening in a few
kids where you start to see um you know
it become much more consistent is around
an eight point change. Um and there's
actually a plot you can see where it
just levels out at eight. Um but I think
you know the the major takeaway here is
that when we actually talk to caregivers
about what's meaningful in their lives a
relatively small score change of two
potentially even smaller is actually
very meaningful. Um, and this is, I
think, what a lot of people predicted,
what a lot of you probably already knew.
Um, but it's great to have, you know, in
an actual study that we will publish and
hopefully tell the FDA that, you know,
this is something that's meaningful to
this population. Um, future directions,
you know, we're hoping to continue the
study about meaningful score
differences. So, like, you know, this is
very preliminary data. We will continue
onward with everything. Um, also, we're
working on creating kind of regions. So
low intermediate and high ability um
communication ability and then also the
orc itself is being translated into
other neurodedevelopmental conditions.
Um so hopefully we can use these same
methods to develop venance for them too.
Big thank you to everyone on my team. Um
yeah, especially Bryce Ree who's sitting
right here and Nicole Lucas. Um and then
also of course Allison and Jennifer for
all they've done and thank you to all of
you all. This is all supported by
caregivers. So thank you.
That's incredible work and it's been
years of effort and thank you for
putting that all together for our
community because this has been a huge
effort by our community. Um, what I want
everyone to acknowledge is when we look
at these end points in clinical trials,
when we're trying to understand and
assess expressive or receptive language,
which we all want desperately, things
like the Bailey don't capture anything
but words, word approximations, or
babble. They don't capture the AAC use
that might change well before or instead
of words. it doesn't really capture
signs and symbols, gestures and eye
gaze, all of those things in which are
really meaningful as our kids gain
skills and communication abilities. And
so for us to be able to see a measure
that deeply captures that that real
distinguished change at a granular level
to truly be able to place my child in a
category so I can see change in all of
these areas that I dream about for her
is huge. And that is all because of the
work of you guys. This was one of the
only measures for Angelmen syndrome to
date that is being used in clinical
trials that we started from scratch from
nothing. And that was because of the
input and the collaboration and the real
commitment by caregivers. So, thank you
to Bryce and Nicole and Abby for their
their commitment to this project. And
thank you to the FDA for recommending we
do this project. Um, but most
importantly, thank you to the caregivers
because we couldn't have done it without
all of you.