So our next speaker um is Emma Brashard.
She's coming to us from Boston
Children's Hospital. And she's going to
talk to us about something also really
important that just gets lost in
Angelmen Syndrome. And as having a child
who lives with cortical visual
impairment or CVI, CVI is really
important. It really can impact
functioning and living and safety on
many levels and all of their abilities
over time. And so what we um really need
to do is understand the prevalence and
the significance of CGI of of CVI in the
Angelmen syndrome community. And she's
going to talk to us about her learnings
there. And we also have a vision
therapist right outside if anyone wants
to go and talk about their child because
so many kids with Angelmen live with CVI
and they're just totally underdiagnosed
and it can change their life once they
get vision therapy. So I'm very excited
to hear this talk.
Hi everyone, my name is Emma. I am a
research assistant with the Angelman
Syndrome Clinical Research Group at
Boston Children's Hospital. And today
I'll be sharing my research project on
cerebral visual impairment or CVI in
Angelman Syndrome.
Okay, to give a brief overview, CVI is a
neurological condition that affects the
brain's visual processing pathways. This
results in vision difficulties
um that cannot be explained solely by
ocular abnormalities or problems with
the eyes. Individuals with CVI often
have difficulty with visual attention
and recognition, making it harder to
process and interpret visual
information. And CVI is often considered
the leading cause of childhood blindness
and low vision.
Perkins School for the Blind, a
Massachusetts institution that is
supports individuals with visual
impairments, estimates that one in 30
school age children have CVI related
vision difficulties.
Of these children, 72% have
developmental delays, 64% have epilepsy,
and 20% have genetic anomalies, all
features commonly seen in Angelman
syndrome.
CVI often co- occurs with other visual
conditions such as stbismas and
refractive errors including myopia
hyperopia and a stigmatism
and fewer than 20% of individuals with
CVI receive a formal diagnosis making it
a highly underdiagnosed condition. A CVI
diagnosis is typically made by an
opthalmologist or optometrist who has
specific knowledge of CVI through a
combination of a visual evaluation, um,
direct observation of a child's
behaviors, and caregiver input.
Many individuals with CBI have
difficulties with navigating indoor and
outdoor spaces, recognizing objects,
images, and people, visually tracking a
moving object or person, looking and
finding something in visual clutter,
using vision in combination with other
senses
and light sensitivity or needing more
light.
Um based on responses from caregivers in
this study, um they shared examples of
experiences that their um children with
Angelman syndrome might have that are
related to CVI, including that their
child has difficulty distinguishing
familiar from unfamiliar faces and might
need to use other features of a person
like their voice or clothing in order to
recognize them.
hesitates when transitioning between
different surfaces like from a wood
floor um to a carpet floor.
Trips or falls over clearly visible
objects while walking. Not due to
mobility challenges but more due to the
fact that they can't see the objects
that are in front of them.
Struggling to walk down steps or on
uneven surfaces.
Showing a preference for touching
objects rather than looking at them.
They might reach out for an object while
they're looking the opposite direction.
um having a delayed response or not
noticing movement like not noticing when
a person walks by um or a car when a car
goes past them or a ball goes past them.
Shows distress or anxiety in new and
unfamiliar environments
and attending only to objects directly
in front of them and not noticing things
in their peripheral um or below eye
level leading to a reduced visual field.
Um we decided to design a study to
further explore CVI and Angelman
syndrome.
We hypothesize that individuals with
endammen syndrome have an increased risk
for CVI as compared to the general
population.
And the goal of this study is to
determine the proportion of individuals
who screen positive for CVI using a
standardized screening questionnaire.
In this study, the primary caregiver
completes a one-time virtual visit with
a research coordinator, which includes a
visual health questionnaire that asks
about the participants visual concerns,
previous vision evaluations, and current
therapies. Caregivers are also asked
whether the participant has been
previously evaluated for CVI and has a
CVI diagnosis.
and the teach CVI screening tool um
which includes questions related to
visual attention, recognition,
perception of movement and visual motor
coordination.
Different version of the screening tool
are used for ambulatory and
non-ambulatory individuals so that
mobility related questions are not asked
when not relevant and the ambulatory
version of 35 questions and the
non-ambulatory version has 19 questions.
Um, participants are classified as
having a positive or negative screen
based on the scoring al algorithm and a
positive screen suggests possible signs
of CVI but does not confirm a diagnosis.
In clinical practice, a teach CVI might
be used by a clinician um as a
structured history tool to support the
evaluation and diagnosis of CBI.
So far, we have 20 participants who have
completed the study. The group includes
a relatively equivalent number of males
and females. The um the age ranges from
2 to 48 years old with 70% under the age
of 18 and 75% were deletion and 25% had
mutation subtype. We do not yet have
individuals with upt or imprinting
defect but we hope to enroll these
molecular subtypes as a study continues.
And according to caregiver report, 55%
of participants walked independently and
5% walked with support as their primary
means of getting around. These
individuals were considered ambulatory
for this study. And the remaining 40%
were non-ambulatory, meaning they
primarily used a stroller or wheelchair
or crawled or scooted um to get around.
Okay, here are the very preliminary
screening results for our study. We had
eight participants screen positive for
CVI and 12 screen negative. Of those who
screened positive, three were already
had a formal CVI diagnosis while five
had not yet been evaluated for CVI by a
vision specialist. And of those who
screened negative, two already had a
formal CVI diagnosis and the other 10
had not yet been evaluated for CVI.
Here's
a further breakdown of the screening
results by the different demographic
groups. Um, at this early stage in the
study, we didn't notice any significant
differences among the demographic
groups. Um, but we will continue to
observe these trends as the study sample
grows.
And we are still looking to recruit more
participants. So, if you are a caregiver
of an individual with Angelman syndrome
and you're interested in participating,
you can scan the QR code or go to the
link redcap.linkdvi
um to fill out an interest form and feel
free to reach out directly to me via my
email if you have any questions. We're
enrolling participants of all ages and
subtypes. And we're especially
interested in enrolling participants who
have already been formally evaluated for
CBI.
And I'd like to acknowledge our
collaborators at the New England College
of Optometry and the Perkins School for
the Blind. Um, as well as the rest of
the Angelman Syndrome Research Group at
Boston Children's. And of course, a big
thank you to all the families who
participated.
[Applause]
What a great job. We can't underestimate
the value of that information and
hopefully more people participate
because I do think once we see this is a
real significant problem in the
community, I think we're going to be
able to address it in a much bigger way
and really get vision therapy on the
IEPs for these kids because I do think
it changes everything for them. And
certainly when Quincy was diagnosed, it
changed a whole heck of a lot. Her whole
AC device is different because of her
diagnosis of CVI and how we think about
contrast as it relates to CVI.