So, our last talk before the break is um
going to be from Ellen Cuks.
That's hard and I tried to get it right.
Thank you. Um and Ellen has just been
such an incredible advocate and asset to
joining the FAST family. Um Ellen really
leads Fast Global and she's here to
share with you all of the
accomplishments of our global
affiliates. Um FAST is global. That's
just what it is. Angelman syndrome is
global and we need to be sure that we
represent everybody around the world
living with Angelman syndrome and the
efforts that have been undertaken by
various regions around the world is
tremendous and we can't underestimate
that and so many people have come here
from all over the world to listen to the
research of course much of it is being
done in the United States but it's being
done to help everybody around the world
not to stay in the United States and the
advocacy and the the work that's being
done by all of these affiliates should
not be should not go unnoticed and
certainly needs to be highlighted,
represented, and cheered for. So, Ellen
is going to share with you some of the
amazing accomplishments of each of the
affiliates, and I'm really excited to
hear all of the work to come to fruition
year after year. Ellen,
>> good afternoon everyone. For those who
do not know me yet, my name is Alan Kuks
and I serve as a global adviser for
fast. I'm also the proud mother of Hazel
who lives with Angelman syndrome and
it's through her that I became part of
this incredible community. Now for
almost two years now, I had the
privilege of working closely together
with our fast global affiliates and I
must say their passion and their
dedication to improving the lives of
individuals living with Angelman
syndrome and their families is truly
inspiring. They are truly the heart and
the hands of fast around the world,
raising awareness, supporting families,
but also helping to accelerate research.
Now, in the next video, you'll hear from
the global affiliates as they share
their highlights of 2025,
but also their ambitions for 2026.
Before we start the video, I would like
to ask all our global affiliate
representatives who are here with us
today to please stand up so we can
recognize you and thank you for
everything that you do for our
community. Please stand up so we can see
you.
It's been an absolute honor to
collaborate with this inspiring group of
people and I couldn't be more proud to
introduce their work to you today.
>> I don't know if we can start the video
or I should start.
>> Hi, my name is Shane and I'm the
chairperson of Fast Australia. 2025 has
been a big year for us in Australia.
This year we had Mitch run an incredible
1100 km in 27 days for Huxley's Heroes.
That's a marathon a day running from
Broken Hill to Newcastle in New South
Wales. Mitch captivated the whole of
Australia with his running feet, raising
awareness for AS and raising $160,000
for Fast Australia. We also held our
bianual collaborative conference in
Sydney with the Australian partner
organization ASA. Day one was dedicated
to science with day two dedicated to
educating our AS parents on the
day-to-day living with AS. We rounded
out the weekend with a gala ball where
we raised just over $180,000.
So, what does 2026 bring for us in
Australia? Like the rest of the world,
we're really looking forward to hosting
some phase 3 clinical trials. We will
continue to build on our AS clinic
program, funding clinical nurses in
Melbourne, Brisbane, and Sydney. It's an
important program giving our families
access to our wonderful AS medical
experts whenever they need it. And
finally, look out for the Global
Angelment Syndrome Registry 2.0 in the
early part of 2026. It's fair to say
we've had some challenges with GASA this
year, but we're really looking forward
to releasing 2.0 in 2026.
>> Hello everybody. I'm Charlotte Pa. I'm
the vice president of Faster France. The
two points we would like to highlight
this year. Uh the first one is the
mapping of the French community. We have
built a map of the French community with
nearly 200 rest families.
This bus helps investigator sites
recruit patient more easily and more
quickly while showcasing our community
to farmers. The two leverage business
intelligence making it an easy
interactive tool to filter the map by
age, genotypes and regions.
This forex is thus being replicated
within several countries around the
world to bring the global AS community
in focus.
Second topic we would like to highlight
is that we have launched successfully
the very first research project funded
by fast friends. This is a study to
assess whether eye trackking can serve
as a robust tool to measure a champions
social perception challenges simply by
capturing eye position while watching
the videos. The study is underway with
around 20 children already enrolled and
we hope to share results with you next
year.
26 still like some kind of ambition plan
as we have identified two research
projects. One on the toe protein
assessing whether it could serve as a
biomarket in the context of ongoing
experimental treatment and the second
one on e- health using connected tools
to measure all children's sleep
difficulties at home. So a lot of
projects and hopes for below one. Thank
you. Hello everyone. My name is Tom Kio
and I'm the chairman of Fast UK. 2025
has been a great year for us. We have
continued our campaign to engage further
with the community which is also one of
our greatest challenges. As well as
this, we continue to fund the natural
history study in Oxford which has now
been extended for another two years. The
study and its finding findings have been
instrumental to bringing clinical trials
into the UK. A few highlights of what
Fast UK have achieved this year include
our annual event at Alton Towers over
international arrangement day which Fast
UK sponsor and which gathers families to
get together. It highlights FAST as a
charity and therefore raises awareness
and support from AS families and their
friends with many then fundraising for
us. Due to this success, the numbers
increase year on year. We ran a media
campaign across national radio,
newspapers and TV coverage over
international Angelment Day in February
and International Carers Week in June.
We launched a successful caregivers
survey obtaining key information as well
as reaching out into the community.
We strive and continue to make closer
connections with other rare disease
communities and the Genetic Alliance UK,
which we continue to into 2026 as well.
We are involved in key discussions about
the expansion of newborn earlier
screening prayers and again we'll
continue this into next year. We
welcomed a new trustee this year Sarah
Washbrook who has been instrumental in
being involved in one reform of the law
on disabled children's social care and
two transformation of the regulatory
approval process for rare diseases in
the UK MH highlighting the strength of
fast UK's voice.
for 2026. As well as that mentioned
before, we will also continue to push
hard to engage the community as
treatments get ever closer to get to
know and support farmer companies as we
step towards regulatory approval as well
as continuing to engage within
regulatory bodies.
>> Hello everyone, my name is Benedetto and
I am a board member at Fast Italy. In
2025, Fast Italy moved from the legal
form of a charity association to the
legal form of a foundation, which gave
us a higher consideration and
recognition from the government and from
hospitals. In 2025, we also organized
the very first Italy scientific
conference. The event gave us the
opportunity together with the Angelman
community and to reach new families.
Also, since the event was highlighted in
some national newspapers,
we reached the goal to increase
awareness. I want to take the
opportunity to thank you again all the
speakers who came to Italy. Some of them
are in this room right now and I want to
tell you that this were really
appreciated by the whole community and
it was really important for us to have
you there in person. Thank you again.
>> Hi there. My name is Noah Firestone and
I'm the chair of Fast Canada.
The achievements that we're most proud
of in 2025 would be our community
organized fundraisers of which we've had
great success and as well we're just
coming to the end of our second year of
funding to the University of North
Carolina Dr. Kung's lab for human
derived stem cell models. The impact of
our achievements are great and it's the
reason that we chose this funding in the
first place and that was to support the
entire research ecosystem as a whole for
bringing treatments to Angelman syndrome
and that is that with these human
derived stem cell models all researchers
that have an avenue towards treatments
are able to apply it to this
in 2026. We do have some goals and that
is to have Canada do their part and join
in on providing data to clinicians and
to throughout the world. So, we are in
the starting steps of developing a
caregiver survey as well as developing a
program to promote and to locate
clinicians and physicians throughout
Canada to educate them about Angelmen
syndrome and about patients with Zelman
syndrome so that they're best able to
direct their patients for best
practices.
>> Hola, I am Cesario Guyana Duran with the
scientific committee of PAS Spain. This
year has been a very good year for
Angelman syndrome research. We gave a
big push to research in Spain. First, uh
we added a molecular lab from the
government for the first time. Second,
we managed to get two private
universities in one single project that
has now be joined by three Italian
leading institutions in the field of
rare diseases. Third, uh we launched our
second grant with a hund,000 euros
endowment for the winner. got all these
things talking to each other and start
collaborating as well. Our second
biggest achievement was in terms of
fundraising. Just in the first half of
the year, families raised over 35,000.
Family organized events. Also, for the
first time, we started participating in
corporate social responsibility grants
by private companies and we won our
first one and we are going for two more.
Maybe at the end of the year, we will
have more results on that. For 2026, we
plan to have at least uh three active
projects at national history study, the
one on the teeth and the biomarkers and
maybe at a fourth one. In terms of uh
fundraiser, we hope to get an record
year in fundraising by incorporating
more grants from the corporate sector.
>> My name is Sarah Gayy and I'm a board
member of Fast Germany. We at Fast
Germany look back on 2025 with deep
gratitude. Thanks to support of our
community and dedicated celebrities, we
were able to raise 131,381
euros through our fundraising campaign.
With these funds, we've been able to
secure financial support for three
Angelmen clinics in Germany for another
five years. This enables our doctors on
site to conduct their own Angelmen
research, a valuable step that helps
strengthen the angel research in
Germany. We are also proud that Germany
is now actively involved in several
clinical trials focused on angelman
syndrome. Each of these studies brings
us closer to our shared vision to one
day find an effective treatment for our
loved ones. On behalf of Fast Germany,
we say thank you for your trust, your
generosity, and your hope. Together,
we're making real progress for the
Angelmen community.
My name is Kolina Kamaruk and I'm the
chairperson of fast pol. This year was
breakthrough for our Polish community.
For the first time in the history,
clinical trials of a potential therapy
for Angeloman syndrome has started also
in Poland. Thanks to strong
collaboration with medical experts,
industry partners and our community,
Polish families can now actively take
part in this global research.
Fast Poland together with medical
university of Bosnan launched the first
national cost of living with Angela
syndrome study. It shows a real as
burden for families, caregivers, health
care system and society. It will will be
a powerful tool to advocate for access
once therapy is approved.
We celebrate International and Syndrome
Day with a conference between dreams and
reality. It brought together medical
experts, parent and therapist to share
knowledge and hope. In 2026, we will
continue to advocate for our community
and raise awareness so that no family
has to face Angelman syndrome alone.
Hi, my name is Stephanie Azut. I am the
president of Fastlatam and I'm the
mother of Michelle who lives with
Angelman Syndrome. 2025 has been a year
of important achievements for Fastlam.
We have successfully completed the data
analysis for our cross-sectional patient
study which included 90 patients in
three different countries. This has
given given us valuable insights into
the clinical characteristics of Angelmen
syndrome across the region. Also, in
collaboration with FastT Poland and Fast
France, our caregiver impact survey has
become a very powerful tool to better
understand the perspectives of families
and the unmet needs they face every day.
Looking ahead, 2026 will be a very
important year for us. We are thrilled
to announce our second Latin American
Angelman Syndrome Conference, which will
take place in Mexico City on April 30th
and May 1st. This event once again will
bring together families, researchers,
clinicians, and industry to accelerate
progress across the region. Everyone is
invited and we hope to see you there.
Beyond the conference, we'll also
continue building community through
international Angelman Day activities,
raising awareness at different medical
regional conferences and expanding our
fundraising campaigns like Misa Fita or
My Favorite Smile and participating in
major sports events including Bogotaas
Half Marathon. Together, we are proving
that Latin America has a strong and
united global voice for Angelmen
Syndrome. Thank you.
Thank you. So,
a huge thank you to all our global fast
affiliates for everything you do and
it's just incredible to see what we can
do as one global community. Now, we're
up for a break. So, I would like to ask
you to come back in 10 minutes uh for
the abstract lightning rounds where you
will ask you to vote for the best
abstract you will see after the break.
Thank you.