Okay, why don't we have a seat so we can
get started.
So the
presentations that are coming up,
there's no time for questions. There's
no time for a comment. There's five
minutes, five slides, content only. I've
instructed everybody presenting that
they don't need to explain to parents
what Angelmen syndrome is. They
certainly don't need to explain to us
what the symptoms of Angelmen syndrome
are. All we want to know is what have
they done and what are the results and
how is this going to help my child. That
is the only thing we want to hear from
them. And if they don't tell us that
they're not going to get voted the best
abstract in the lightning round and
that's how this is going to work. So we
want to make sure that at the end don't
leave. I'm going to we're going to get
you the QR code. think it's in the Cvent
app, but I I will get you exactly what
it is and where it is and you guys could
take a picture at the end and everybody
can vote and we'll we'll call out the
winner tomorrow morning. Um, but I'm
very excited to really be able to share
with you the results. All of your money,
all of your time, all of your anxiety
and excitement comes to fruition when
you see results. So, this is just a
round presentation after presentation in
lay language. What are your results? So,
we're going to start with a presentation
which is from blood to brain stem cell
gene therapy for Angelmen syndrome.
Colin Jwitt from UCLA is going to give
us the cliffhanger
before Don Cohen's presentation tomorrow
who is keynote who's going to talk to us
about the HSC gene therapy program.
Colin
So, hi everyone. I'll be sort of giving
a teaser for the talk that Don Conn will
be giving tomorrow. Um, which is going
to go over how we can use the blood to
treat the brain. Uh, I first want to go
over how that can happen. Uh, so looking
at the left, you can see how blood stem
cell gene therapy works. uh essentially
the blood stem cells are mobilized from
the bone marrow and then extracted from
the patient. Then in the lab we can
treat those blood stem cells with some
type of viral vector and this
essentially delivers a therapeutic gene
to the patient stem cells. Then those
stem cells that have been treated are
returned to the patient in a bone marrow
transplant. So the patients effectively
become their own bone marrow transplant
donor.
uh these stem cells then do the
important job of creating all of the
blood in the body. So this also includes
the immune cells during the
transplantation process. You can see on
the right that immune cells called
monocytes can migrate across the blood
brain the bloodb brain barrier and
engraft into the niche of the brain. So
you can imagine if we use a viral vector
that transforms the immune cells such
that they will secrete UB3A. When these
immune cells migrate into the brain,
they can then secrete UB3A to
neighboring deficient neurons
effectively becoming a little uh cell
factory is like how we like to think
about it.
We assessed this strategy in Angelmen
syndrome mice using two different
vectors and compared this to wild type
and angelman syndrome mice that were not
treated.
You can see here on the left this is
results from the roto rod assay. Uh in
this assay mice are placed on a rotating
rod and um the measure of time until
they fall is sort of a measure of motor
function. You can see that the treated
mice in red and blue using vector 1 and
two perform very similarly to the wild
type mice uh which are in purple. Uh and
very excitingly they perform uh
significantly better than the untreated
Angelmen syndrome mice in brown.
So this demonstrates that the therapy is
working to treat the motor function
phenotype of Angelmen syndrome. On the
right this is results of a novel object
recognition assay. In this assay, mice
are essentially shown a object they are
familiar with and a new novel object.
Uh, neotypical mice will be more
interested in this novel object and
interact with it more. Uh, and it's
characterized that Angelman syndrome
mice do not interact as much with the
novel object. So, what we have plotted
here is a discrimination index score.
Um, the score very simply, if it's a
positive number, it's a sign uh that the
mouse is behaving neurotypically uh and
behaving with the novel object more. So
you can see that the wild type mice, as
you'd expect, all have a positive
discrimination index score. And very
excitingly, all of the treated mice as
well have that uh positive
discrimination index score. So it's
showing that cognitive function has been
improved in these treated mice.
Next up, this uh data is new this year,
and we're very excited to share it. Uh
the mice were assessed for their delta
power over a 24-hour recording period.
And you can see that as described
throughout the day, the Angelman
syndrome mice have a characteristic
elevated delta power level in brown uh
during that 24-hour period. But then the
treated mice follow the same trajectory
as the wild type mice uh following that
purple line. And this has also been
quantified on the right for everyone. Uh
this is the average delta power over
that 24hour recording period. You can
see that there's a significant decrease
in the red and the blue compared to the
brown untreated control. Uh whereas the
wild type uh and it actually achieves
the same level as the wild type mice. So
again, this was just sort of a summary.
Um and what I hope you can take away is
that the symptoms in adult ancient
syndrome mice marketkedly improved
following the stem cell gene therapy.
Both vectors uh utilize promoters that
have shown a very safe clinical track
record. Uh and Dr. con's talk tomorrow
at 8:30 will discuss this further and so
these results you know it's still just
in a mouse model but we're very
encouraged so fast transformatics and
UCLA have teamed up to perform the
translational studies that are necessary
to then enable a human clinical trial
so I'd like to thank everyone on this
slide especially Chris Luther's who
really led these studies at UCLA uh fast
for the endless support not just in
funding the project but supporting it
from every stage that we've been that um
and lastly all of you for listening.
Thank you very much.
That was fabulous.