Okay, next we have Nikki Armstrong who's
fast genetic um genetic counselor who's
going to be talking to us about cracking
the code, understanding UB3 mutations.
[Applause]
Okay, so we've talked already a lot
today about the UB3A gene making the
UB3A protein, but there's one key piece
that I wanted to cover um when we're
thinking about mutations, and that's how
the gene codes for the protein. So in
the picture here, you can see that the
gene has is made up of chemicals that we
call nucleotides. So those are the ACTs
and G's shown there. And the body reads
those nucleotides three at a time. And
for every three of those nucleotides, it
puts on one piece of a protein. So three
chemicals codes for one amino acid or
one piece of the protein. The cells read
the gene, make the string of amino acids
from the code of the gene, and that
string of amino acids goes through
complex folding and processing to make
the functional UB3A protein. And that's
shown there as the green blob.
So when we have a mutation in the UB3A
gene, there's a change a within the code
within those chemicals that make up the
gene that makes the the resulting
protein either absent or non-functional
or less functional. And that change
could be um just one nucleotide that's
affected. It could be 50 or a couple of
hundred nucleotides affected. But for it
to be mutation as it has to be
completely within the UB3A gene. And
it's really important to understand that
there are hundreds or maybe even
thousands of different mutations within
the UB3A gene and they can all affect
the protein differently.
So we've already talked a lot today
about what the UB3A protein actually
does. One key role of course is that
flagging that we talked about. So adding
ubiquitin to other proteins to help the
the cells know it's time to break them
down. In order to do the jobs that the
UB3A protein is supposed to do, it has a
number of different domains or sections
of the protein that interact with the
other proteins. So, we saw some of that
in earlier talks today. And you can see
some of the three-dimensional structure
that's shown there that looks like the
curly cues. Those are some of the
different portions that interact with
other proteins. Those are all really
important. If we have disruptions in the
way that some of those structures are
made, they're not able to bond to or to
associate with the other proteins that
they need to. And there are parts of the
UB33A protein that are completely
necessary for the function. One key role
there, if you can see that teeny tiny
little red star, that spot at 820,
that's the spot where ubiquin actually
bonds or attaches. So if that spot has a
problem with it, the UB3A isn't going to
be able to do any of its adding the tags
onto things.
So we know that mutation as is really
variable. It can affect each person
living with mutation as differently,
different degree of symptoms and
severities and a lot of that has to do
with the fact that each mutation can
affect the protein differently. So we
set out to better characterize the
mutations. We started looking within the
global angelman syndrome registry and we
had 61 participants there with the
mutation genotype. But then we wanted to
broaden that. And so what we did was
actually look in a number of other data
sets. And we ended up with a total of
279 different UB3A mutations that we
classified and characterized based on
what they do to the gene itself and then
what they do to the protein. And for
more details about this, I'm happy to go
through it. It's all on my poster in the
poster session.
So
in trying to understand the variability
in the mutation as there's sort of two
key pieces. one is where in the protein
are the mutations. So what we're seeing
here on the bottom is the protein again
with the different domains and then what
we're seeing on the top is a mapping of
the mutation at the amino acid that
occurred at the key pieces here are one
mutations are throughout the entire
protein. Right? You can see little blue
lines throughout the entire protein. But
then if you look towards the end of the
protein, so around the 800s there where
that key spot is where ubiquitin bl
binds you, you can see more blue there
and higher blue lines. That means there
are more mutations affecting that part
of the protein. That part of the protein
is um very important. And so that's what
we see there.
The second piece that causes variability
in mutation as is that each mutation can
affect the protein differently. We have
some mutations that result in no UB3A
protein at all. Some mutations that
result in a UB3A protein that's just
missing an important piece like missing
the ubiquitin, please. And then we have
some mutations that will result in a
UB3A protein that is has a completely
abnormal structure and so it's sort of
hard to predict what it can do and what
it can't do. And you can you can
understand that these different kinds of
mutations and different UV3A proteins
might interact differently, right? and
cause maybe a different kind of symptoms
and also we might need to think about
therapies differently depending on the
effect of the protein.
So bottom line is mutations are really
complicated. We can classify them based
on how they affect the gene. We can but
more importantly really is understanding
how they affect the protein and what we
really need to do are collect and map
and model as many mutations as possible.
So, especially if you have a loved one
living with mutation as please join the
global angelman syndrome registry and
update your uh your account with your
registry or with your genetic test
report so that we can make sure we've
got our broad-based mutations. Thank
you.
[Applause]
That's so important and it's critical as
we think about inclusion criteria into
clinical trials and I want everyone to
just accost Nikki throughout the rest of
the weekend if you have a child with a
mutation so she can talk to you and
really gain the knowledge of your child
and you can share um that genetic
information so she can help navigate
this. So I think it's really really
important that we best understand
mutations in Angel syndrome.