Um, so our next talk is by Dr. Adriana
Gomez. Understanding GI challenges in
Angelmen Syndrome. What families can
learn from the natural history study.
>> Hello. Oh,
okay. So, um, I'm going to present a
little bit of, uh, our work from the
natural history study. So, first I'd
like to thank all the families for
participating and if you're not
participating, please we have our people
outside and we'll be happy to have you.
I also like to thank my mentor Dr. Bird
who started a natural history study uh
with um Terry Joe uh long ago in 2004
and uh since then we've been collecting
this data with now um with the help with
Wenhan and Anjelie a phenomenal team. uh
working in this effort and I'd like to
thank Bat Shiva as well for putting this
work together and allowing me to be here
presenting this work for you.
So this is a little bit of our uh study.
So we have um nine sites right now uh in
the US and in Canada and for a while we
were funded by the NIH for another
period for uh we were funded by the FDA
and now currently uh we have the help of
Ebel um and the enrollment is easy so
you can just reach out to all of us and
um and we'll collect the data anyway. So
going forwards for the main important
thing um we you know the symptoms of uh
GI um tract and the most important thing
is how it goes throughout the life and
how important it is an interaction of
the GI symptoms and uh the impact that
it has in the in the health overall
health of our uh children. uh the GI
symptoms start early in life as you can
see and the feeding problems are really
important. You see that about 70% of
children with deletion will present with
feeding difficulties early in life and
this can be so severe that lead to uh
failure gaining weight. uh you it's it
is more important in a deletion subgroup
but the m mutations uh uh the kids with
mutation also present a very important
um difficulties gning weight
and the GI symptoms persist throughout
the life you see that later in life
you're going to have the reflux it can
start earlier as well but also goes
throughout the life with as uh much as
40% of our patients with delions present
and some uh degree of reflux. And uh you
see it's a little bit less for the other
uh subtypes, but it's still very
important about a third of our patients.
Um and you see that the most common um
treatments that we do are proton pump
inhibitors and the H2 receptor
antagonist and ant acids to help with
the symptoms.
Uh in terms of constipation,
constipation is the biggest deal. I must
say we have about 70% of our patients uh
complaining of constipation and I'm sure
you guys know that well um we created a
way to score the constipation in our fam
in our um group and we are taking in
consideration the frequence of um bowel
movements per week and the consistence
of the stools and the uh number of
medications that we need to take. And
then we classify it in mild uh moderate
and severe. And you see that most of our
children will present with moderate
constipation. Uh and the number of
medication takens is also uh
considerable. So about 50% of our
patients are taking some medication for
um for constipation and they can vary in
stimulants or laxatives or some type of
dietary supplements and those are fibers
or um magnesium but one important thing
that I want mention here is that you see
them about 50 70% or 80% of our patients
will have constipation but we are seeing
that only 50% about 50% of our patients
are treating this. So is there a gap? Is
there a barrier? Why aren't we treating
that well enough?
So why am I talking about GI 2 and why
did I say it's all so important? There
is a correlation between the GI symptoms
and seizures. Uh my idea is to
eventually see what's a correlation with
the GI symptoms with behavior and sleep
too. Eventually we'll get there with
some help with analyzing all this data.
But what we have so far is clear that
there is a correlation. I just want to
remind you that correlation is not
causation. Right? So we have more
symptoms of uh GI symptoms reported.
There is uh more prevalence too of
seizures and this is uh at this level.
So if someone is complaining of the GI
symptoms, you're going to see as high as
a prevalence of 53 to to 100% of the
patients with seizures. And when there
are nine symptoms of um GI and these are
all of those reflux, gagging, drooling,
uh you're going to see the prevalence of
seizures are way lower.
And then we also check all the uh
prevalence of seizures. So here we can
see that most of our patients are well
controlled about 90% of them uh did not
present any severe seizures in the last
four weeks and those are the medications
that they are doing.
Thank you.
>> [applause]
>> See, it doesn't take 30 minutes to get
great data.