So, our next speaker is Dr. Bridget
Keller, and she's going to be talking to
us about Project Wellcast, p
personalizing mental um well wellness
support for Angelman Syndrome
caregivers, which we all desperately
need. So, if somebody can help
personalize my mental wellness, that
would be great.
[Applause]
All right, where are the caregivers in
the room? Yay. Yay. Okay, give
yourselves a round of applause for
staying this long in the day. Okay, so
this one is for you. I won't talk about
any animal models, I promise. Um, so I
am going to share with you today results
of a recent very large clinical trial
that we conducted to understand more
about how to support caregivers. The
original pilot data for this project was
actually funded by ASF in 2019. So all
of this started with Angelman syndrome
and I want to underscore that. So the
goal of our trial was to try to
understand how we could match caregivers
of people with rare genetic conditions
to personalize 100% remote support that
would actually meet their unique family
needs. So a lot of times when you roll
into your local clinic or you see
somebody online, they're thinking about
two things in terms of what to support
you with. One is what are your mental
health needs? Do you kind of exceed the
threshold on this on the checklist,
right? And the other is what's
available. But we know that especially
for rare families and especially for
Angelmen families, a lot else is going
on. You might have, you know, compared
to other families who are showing up at
that clinic, different feelings about
Angelmen syndrome. You might have a
child who has different needs. You have
different levels of existing care. And
you might have different forms of other
treatments available to you, different
cultural factors and values, different
social support, caregiving stage, you
know, have you been doing this for
decades or is it a new diagnosis,
personality differences, lifestyle,
time, literacy, respit care, lots and
lots and lots of things. Um, and we
actually are measuring all of this now.
And we're trying to understand how do we
take not just your score, but the
topography of your life to figure out
what you need.
So, how did we do this? Um, so we
received about $3 million from NIH who
really cares about this issue to try to
develop a precision health tool or an
algorithm. And when I say algorithm, I
don't mean AI. I mean a, you know, a
decision tree that clinicians, policy
leaders, PAGS can use to help figure out
what to offer their families. So, the
first step of this was to design an
algorithm. And to do this, we use two
primary forms of data. So when families
come into the study, they provide two
weeks of data collection. One is your
standard self report questionnaires that
you've done millions of, right? Um the
other is innovative. It's ecological
momentary assessment where we pinged
caregivers smartphones as they went
about their days and asked about all of
those things I just showed you on the
other screen. Together, we formed a
clinical decision tree that matched what
we know just from science alone on what
treatments and support programs that are
typically available in communities,
things like acceptance and commitment
therapy or peer-to-peer coaching, which
of these things might best fit
caregivers with various unique profiles.
We knew we would not get this right, and
we told NIH that we were going to be
wrong. And I'm very glad they still
funded us. And the reason they did that
is we told them as we went through this
trial, we would test and refine the
algorithm. To to do this, we had a
community academic partnership that was
really incredible. We hired eight rare
disorder caregiver coaches who worked on
our team, deployed some of the
treatments, helped us figure out how to
fix our algorithm, and they also worked
with over 50 trainees across the United
States and New Zealand who offered the
treatments to caregivers. So, it also
functioned as this great training
program for next generation clinicians.
So all of these folks would then deploy
the algorithm to the f the people in the
trial. Half were assigned to the
algorithm. Half were assigned to a more
random treatment. Um and then we looked
at what worked.
To do that, we developed a a a protocol
that we now called cascade paneling. So
this is a new model and I'm sharing the
the publication here in case anybody
wants to learn more about it. Um to make
clinically informed decisions alongside
community partners in research settings.
So we essentially looked at the data
together and we had preset criteria for
how we would fix the algorithm based on
what the data looked like. And we did
that three times. So across the last
four semesters, this happened very
quickly. We tried three different
versions of this algorithm that we
refined based on the data in the trial
and caregiver input. So I'll just show
you a few results and then I would love
for you to see us at posters. I think we
have like five posters out there, so
come visit us. Uh we enrolled over 400
families. 64 of those were Angelmen
caregivers which we were so excited to
see. They were across the US and across
this protocol the families received a
lot of support over 1,400 coaching
sessions. So part of this I won't talk
about today is we also looked at peer
coaching as a method for boosting
engagement in clinical trials. This is
something I would love to talk with
industry partners about in particular.
Um, and so people got coaching, but they
also got over 2400 hours of free therapy
and support programs deployed by these
excellent graduate student trainees. We
collected a lot of data, over 80,000 of
those smartphone surveys across four
semesters. And then we also had
self-report forms and some additional
behavioral data I won't share here.
What did we find? The study was feasible
over we hit our 80% metric over and
over. So this model of doing everything
remotely from assessment to treatment
and partnering with these clinical
graduate students and these amazing peer
coaches worked. The families showed up
and the next step is they found it
acceptable. Um we actually had to
develop a new acceptability tool for
this trial because nothing quite existed
that looked at both the program and the
context and whether it mattered to
caregivers. So if you want to learn more
about that, we've published it. Um, but
according to the threshold of this tool,
91% of participants, regardless of
whether they got their first choice
treatment, found the program to be
acceptable. And then finally, it was
feasible. We hit our 80% threshold for
feasibility across all of the different
outcomes. Oh, wait, I'm going backwards.
Um, we also found that it was
efficacious. So, depression is moving
across the treatment. We'll be
publishing more about this in the
future. Um, and we are also able to look
at those more innovative kind of uh,
ecological surveys to see outcomes and
those are showing us different sources
of information. So that'll be a preview
to next year. Um, but huge thanks to the
big team that made this happen including
the investigators, the staff, uh, the
peer coaches and all of the trainees.
Um, and check out our posters. And I
also wanted to mention we offer a free
webinar series where we just take one
little piece of data from this and share
it back with families every month. It's
super fun and we would love to have you
there. Um, so come see us at posters to
learn more. Thanks.
[Applause]
>> Thanks, Bridget. You know, five slides
or 10 slides, it's all good. I'm just
kidding. I was like, five slides, 10
slides. Like, it's close.