Our next speaker is uh Maline Graming
from Boston Children's Hospital um
talking about top caregiver reported
concerns in children and adults living
with Angelmen syndrome.
Whoops.
Hey. Hi everyone. My name is Maddie. I'm
a coordinator working with the Angelman
Syndrome Clinical Research Group at
Boston Children's Hospital and I'm going
to be giving a brief overview of our
research looking at top caregiver
concerns reported uh for children and
adults with Angelman Syndrome.
I'll start by giving some background on
our project. First, we know that all
challenges and experiences within the AS
community are unique and may vary upon
an individual's age and molecular
subtype. The caregiver perspective is
crucial for understanding their
day-to-day challenges and concerns, and
insight into these concerns could
potentially help to guide interventions
and policies for individuals with AS.
Our aims for this project are to
evaluate common developmental,
behavioral, medical, and other concerns
reported by caregivers, identify the
major reported concerns by caregivers of
individuals as with AS based on their
molecular subtype and their age, and to
use those caregiver reported concerns to
identify areas of unmet need as well as
gaps in care in the community.
Um, the data for this project were
collected as part of the AS natural
history study. At annual study visits,
caregivers participate in an interview
with the study team during which they're
prompted to give their top three
concerns for their loved one with AS.
They're given the option to rank these
concerns on a scale of one to three with
one being their greatest concern. These
are responses are recorded on a form by
the study team where they're either
listed as part of a pre-established
category or entered as a free text
concern under other. After our initial
data collection and during review of
this data set, we recoded all these free
text concerns to either fit into one of
the pre-existing categories or we
created new categories that would
capture these data. We ended up with a
final 23 concern categories to analyze
which we analyzed in the following ways.
First, we looked at the percentage of
caregivers who reported each concern
regardless of how they chose to end rank
or endorse that concern. We then took a
closer look at just the number one
concern um and analyze those concerns by
both age and molecular subtype.
Now, a quick look at our sample. We
included uh data from 193 unique
participants in the AS natural history
study. For analyses, we split uh our
sample up into four age cohorts
represented here. As you can see, uh the
most predominant cohort was individuals
in the um age 6 to 12 years cohort. Um
and then for our subtype breakdown, um
as expected, the majority of our sample
was deletion positive, followed by those
with a UB3A mutation and then UPD and
imprinting defects.
Right. Um here is a quick look at some
of our results. Shown here is our graph
uh representing the percentage of
caregivers who reported each concern
regardless of how they chose to rank
that concern. The list of concerns on
the left hand side um are the 23
categories that we came up with after we
did our recoding and then we further
collapsed overlapping categories. Uh in
this figure um the greater represented
concerns and more frequently reported
concerns are represented by the longer
bars um as well as the darker red color.
And it's clear from looking at these
results that the most commonly reported
concern was expressive communication in
our sample. Uh this was followed by
externalizing behaviors which are things
like hitting and slapping um as well as
sleep. But we do still see um
endorsement and representation of those
concerns across all of our domains. We
did take this a step further and analyze
concerns within age cohorts and
molecular subtype. Um those data will be
shown on our poster in the session
following this. So, please, if you're
interested, feel free to come and check
those out.
And to wrap this up, um, I'm just going
to share some of our key takeaways from
what we've learned so far. Um, first, as
I've already mentioned, expressive
communication was by far, uh, the most
frequently reported caregiver concern in
our sample. Um, identifying those key
concerns for individuals with AS across
various life stages and across genetic
subtypes supports a more targeted
person- centered approach to care. and
the caregiver voice is critical for
advancing treatments and support
services that specifically address the
most pressing needs of the AS community.
Um, and I'll just wrap up by giving a
quick thank you to the ABOM, um, to all
the investigators and study teams that
are part of the natural history study
and of course to all of our wonderful
families who have contributed to this
data. So, thank you.
[Applause]
I love seeing the opportunity of all
these research coordinators and students
that are coming up here and presenting
to this ent enormous audience. It's so
impressive to see these young academic
researchers really getting involved and
caring enough to put this together and
present to