Our next presentation is actually a
video. It's Dr. Annne Wheeler.
Unfortunately, she couldn't be here with
us today, but she'll be here tomorrow.
She promises. We'll see what happens
with the shutdown. Maybe that'll change.
Um, but she's going to present to us on
the development of the measure for the
observable outcomes of distress and
Angelmen syndrome, the mood as
hi everyone. I'm so sorry to not be
there in person today. What an amazing
meeting it's been. I hope everyone's
enjoying themselves and learning a lot.
Here I want to share with you some
initial findings from our effort to
better understand behaviors in Angelmen
syndrome, especially those that appear
to be related to anxiety or distress.
Many of you have told us that your loved
one with Angelmen experiences anxiety.
And many of you also describe behaviors
like aggression or clinginess. But
anxiety is considered an internal issue,
meaning that we can we as observers
cannot determine for sure that an
individual is experiencing anxiety
unless they are able to tell us
themselves, which of course is a major
challenge for individuals with Angelmen.
And so we have set out to develop a
measure that uses only observed
behaviors in order to understand how
anxiety as described by a caregiver um
is manifesting in Angelmen.
All phases of the study that I'm going
to describe have been done in
collaboration between the United States
folks um RTI and uh the natural history
study as well as the Arasmus Center in
the Netherlands and the pro this program
has been funded by the Angelman Syndrome
Foundation.
So we took a four-phase approach to
developing this measure. The first thing
we did was do some concept elicitation
interviews with families. Then we
decided how those items that we heard
from interviews mapped on to other
measures, developed a new measure, did
some cognitive interviewing, and are now
in the phase of collecting data on the
existing measure.
In the first phase, we conducted 23
interviews with caregivers, about half
of whom had an individual with a
deletion subtype and the other half had
an individual with a non-deion subtype.
Almost all of these caregivers reported
behaviors associated with anxiety in
their loved ones with common behaviors
including things like freezing,
flinching more, crying, hand flapping,
and aggression. These interviews also
allowed us to understand a bit more
about what families mean when they
describe some behaviors. For example,
clingy was endorsed by nearly 80% of the
sample. But when we asked about what
clingy looks like, we found that that
could mean anything from increased
increased whining when left alone,
watching the caregivers's every move,
holding on to the caregiver, or
aggressive behavior towards others. So
this helped us understand the types of
observable behaviors we can ask more
about to understand what clinginess
looks like for that individual.
After this, we developed a long list of
behaviors we heard parents describe and
limited those behaviors to ones that can
be observed by others. The final list of
69 behaviors are ranked on two scales. A
frequency scale from never to often and
a severity scale from mild to severe.
This set of items makes up what we're
now calling the measure of observable
outcomes of distress in Angelmen
syndrome or the mood as before we
launched this measure to get
psychometric data. We did some cognitive
testing with 14 caregivers where we
asked them to give us feedback on the
clarity of the items and how well it
represents their loved one with Angelman
syndrome. We got very positive feedback
with only minor revisions to wording and
of instructions, severity items and some
impact items.
So we are now in the psychometric
evaluation period with data being
collected through oneoff surveys in
multiple countries and sites as well as
through the natural history study. This
phase is just getting started, so we
don't have much data yet. But from the
first 31 participants, it seems that the
most frequently endorsed behaviors are
easily distracted, refusing to separate,
pulling on others, and mouththing
behaviors. The most severe behaviors
include reduced communication when
upset, biting nails, checking the time,
lying down, and mouththing behaviors.
Once we have enough data, we will be
able to use this information to better
understand the extent of behavior
challenges in Angelmen and perhaps be
able to categorize the behaviors into
clusters that can help us get to the
root and function of these behaviors to
better help address the distress being
experienced by the individual. We have
an initial idea of how these behaviors
might cluster, including clusters that
may point directly to function, for
example, communication versus avoided
related distress. Stay tuned for more
information about this measure in the
next year.
If you are a caregiver interested in
completing the mood as to contribute to
data on this topic or if you are a
researcher or clinician interested in
using the mood as in your setting,
please contact me and we would love to
collaborate. My Sarah my colleague Sarah
Potter who has been involved in the
development of this measure is there at
the conference right now and I will be
there on Saturday if any of you want to
find us to ask questions and discuss
more about this tool. Thank you so much
for your time. I look forward to seeing
you all on Saturday.