So now we are going to move to Dr. Morty
Razavi who's going to be presenting on a
UB3A assay, a biioarker as we talked
about earlier, um a potential biomarker
that we're looking at to measure UB3A
levels in the CSF. Morty,
>> thank you. It's good to be here with you
guys today. Um over the past 20 years
I've worked on maybe two 300 protein
biomarkers and I've only made emotional
connection to a handful of them and
UB31A1
uh is one of them. Um this is such a
master protein when you think about it
uh in our neurons for the function of
the brain for proper function of the
cells and this is what you've been
hearing all day that people are focusing
on developing therapeutics that can
replenish uh the neurons in Angelman
syndrome uh with this one protein and
that's why it's so important to me and
and our team regardless of the approach
that you're going to take for the
therapeutic the fundamental question
remains are you actually introducing
UB3A
uh in the neurons and what are the
levels of this protein uh and are they
able to be sustained over a long period
of time. So some of the reasons why you
would want to measure this protein in
the context of the therapeutics first
and foremost are you delivering the
protein where it needs to be delivered
to the neurons. Secondly, how much of it
is there after you do your gene therapy
or other forms of therapy? uh that's
crucial information that you need to
properly dose uh the therapeutic so that
the protein is is getting expressed at
the levels that it needs to be. And the
third thing is once you do both of those
things is a protein actually going to
stay there for a long enough period of
time and so longitudinal measurement of
this protein uh to make sure that uh the
results are sustained is going to be
important to all the all the therapies
out there.
So if you look at different ways that
people measure UB3A in different sample
types u you are looking at three
different uh assays. The first one is a
protein assay. There are different ways
of doing this. Uh but they're all
looking at the protein which is the
functional end here. That is the right
thing to do. That is the correct type of
biomarker to be looking at. The problem
that exists with these assays is
twofold.
um there are such low levels of this
protein in the neurons in in in CSF uh
that sometimes you're making a mistake.
Am I really measuring the correct thing?
And so the sensitivity of these assays
is usually where the challenge is. Uh a
different type of assay looks at the the
uh products of the genome. So you
measure the RNA, but the challenge there
is that you can make good measurements
of of these RNAs, but that doesn't
guarantee that the protein is actually
there. And so you want to go the next
level up and look at the protein as a
biomarker. And there are assays out
there that look at the tissue. You can
actually visualize where the protein is.
uh those are powerful assays, but
tissue, brain tissue is not the kind of
sample that you want to be working with
if you're running clinical trials. You
ideally want to have an assay that works
in in a surrogate matrix like the CSF.
uh and that's why um thanks to your
donations and under leadership of
Allison and Jennifer uh we started
developing a gold standard assay that is
sensitive enough to be able to
quantitate CS uh UB3A in CSF of Angelman
syndrome patients especially in support
of all the ongoing clinical trials.
So that work started about 18 months ago
and we've successfully developed this
gold standard assay. You're seeing some
measurements that we've made in actual
Angelman syndrome CSF samples that we
have received and we've determined the
levels in these samples to be on the
level of phentogram grams per mill.
The way to translate that to a lay
audience is that that's reminiscent of
looking at a bee on a flower on a lily
pad in a pond all the way from the space
station and you're doing that with your
naked eyes. So that's the level of
sensitivity we've been able to
accomplish with this assay. The next
levels are now that this tool is
available to the community, we're going
to start answering some important
biological questions. For example, is
UB3A neuronal or not? So we're working
with the community to get proper sample
types including age match neurotypical
samples to answer these kinds of
biological questions. And the second
thing we're doing as a company, we're
making sure that this assay is
commercially available to anybody who's
developing therapeutics. Any researcher
out there who is developing uh
methodologies for curing this disease,
if they need to measure UB3A, this assay
is available to them. On that note, u
huge thanks to fast to Allison and
Jennifer for uh bringing this really
interesting project to us and thank you
all uh for your support.