And then our last talk before we get to
vote is Dr. Joel Matthews who's
presenting something quite similar an
update on Angelman syndrome uh CSF UV3
as a biioarker.
So I'm the last one to keep you away
from um post recession and cocktails and
all those sort of things. So I'll try to
go fast. So um as Allison said, yes,
I'll be speaking very similar. So we um
with Biogen had developed a different
assay that also measured UB3A within
CSF. Um I should say I'm an employee of
Ionis.
Um and so but before I jump into that, I
want to just really we today we've been
talking a lot about biomarkers. Um
there's been in several different talks
people have mentioned them. But why as
as drug developers and and people do we
care about biomarkers? What what do they
do? What do they provide? Um so I can't
even see what's up on there. Um so
biomarkers um we like to classify them
into four different categories. Um the
first one is diagnostic and you can
think about these as how these will help
you to know what's going on inside your
body if you have a certain disease or
something. um pharmmodynamic or disease.
Um these are where we work a lot um as a
biomeic scientist and trying to discover
these type of um assays and and markers
that we can measure. So we can know if
if our medicine that we're giving um
that we're testing is actually working
and if it's hitting the cells that going
to the cells that we want it to go to
and is it changing the organs in the way
that we think is productive. And there's
also prognostic biomarkers. These are
ones that predict how your condition may
change over time. for instance, if your
disease is going to be fast or slow
progressing
um or safety biomarkers basically learn
how to track what's happening with your
your therapy inside your body. So um in
this context as we said we have
developed an assay for measuring UB3A um
is as a tool to help in our clinical
developments. Um, and with your guys'
help, we've been able to use samples
that we've gotten from some natural
history trials to try to start
characterizing our assay and
understanding some of the
characteristics about it um to
understand its usefulness within the
clinical trial. And so the first one we
have here on the um my left, I don't
Yeah, your guys left too. um is where we
took samples and we ran them in the
assay multiple times to see what the
variability is within that assay. Um to
be able to quantify a sample um a
biomarker, you need to have good
reproducibility between um different
batches. And now with UB3A, because it's
expressed in every cell in the body,
you'll see there's a couple ones on here
that have that are highlighted in in
red. Um these are ones that there was
the CSF samples were actually had red
blood cells in them as sometimes happens
in collection. Um but because red blood
cells and other cells types that come
from blood contain UB3A within them um
these ones had higher levels and so they
weren't used for calculating
reproducibility. The other thing we did
um here on the right is you can see
where we also as part of one of our
natural history trials we did we were
able to get CSF samples from two time
points where um and then we could
compare how UB38 is varying over time
within an individual
um and you can look at the bottom to see
the statistics for that. The other thing
we've done is we've also um tried to
understand what is the source of that
CSF um UB3A as um was talked about
before um there um UB3A is expressed in
every cell type in the body and so um
can we understand where this is actually
coming from and so we did an experiment
in rats where we um decreased the levels
of U3A using a different ASO than it's
being used in the clinic and we were
able to see changes within the tissue
and the brain tissue but that wasn't
reflected in the the CSF. And so we're
continuing to follow up on this as well
as trying to look at other biomarkers
with these samples that we have access
to to try to understand um and find
biomarkers that can be useful in
understanding how our therapy is working
and how um patients are are progressing.
And so with this, I'd like to just to
thank everyone who was involved in um
getting the us these CSF samples to be
able to do this work um as well as fast
and also our all of our academic
collaborators. Thank you.