I'm really thrilled to be able to
present our keynote speaker. Our keynote
speaker is Dr. Don Conn um from the
University of California um UCLA.
He's a distinguished professor professor
of pediatrics, immunology, and molecular
genetics. Um he's a pediatric bone
marrow transplant physician. and he
focuses on developing blood stem cell
therapies for genetic disorders,
including the development of the first
successful bone stem cell gene therapy
for a disorder called ADA Skid, as many
of you might know as bubble baby.
Babies are born without an immune system
and they generally die before the age of
two.
And Don, I don't want to say
single-handedly because he probably
won't let me say that, but almost
single-handedly
has cured, I use the word cure,
over 50 babies with ADA skin.
And that is a single gene disorder that
has been eradicated with this type of
gene therapy.
And so I'll tell you a little story
about how we met Don and why Don's here
because he works on bone marrow
transplant. You might wonder why in the
world we bring an immunologist
transplant physician to the FAST summit.
And it's because in 2016
we worked to create a type of gene
therapy called hematopoetic stem cell
gene therapy with an incredible team at
UC Davis.
And we are high-risisk, high reward and
everyone told us it would never work for
Angelman syndrome. But we saw the
literature about brain diseases that
were being treated with this type of
therapy because it can cross the bloodb
brain barrier and get to all of the
neurons of the brain. And there was no
reason to believe it wouldn't help
Angelmen syndrome outside of a lot of
scientists not understanding the
mechanism. Therefore, it couldn't be
possible. And in classic form, fast
said, "Don't tell me something's not
possible. We'll tell you if it's
possible." And so we decided to fund
this program thanks to the support of
Dr. Dave Seagull, who brought to us a
team that said, "Let's try it." And we
did. And it completely cured the adult
Angelman syndrome mouse model. For the
first time, any therapy had actually
treated every single gen phenotype.
And we were so excited that we were
going to be able to truly truly see a
transformation like this and we wanted
to push it as quickly as we could to the
clinic. But unfortunately, the year we
took the license and decided to push it,
news came out that a part of the gene
therapy that we were using, which Dr.
Con will talk about actually was
associated with some types of blood
cancer. And we needed to change that
part of the gene therapy because there
were other similar ones that were out
there that had this part, a promoter
that had a track record for decades of
safety. And this promoter did not have
that track record. And so Jennifer and I
said, "Well, who can help us change this
promoter? How do we figure this out? And
we looked up the person in a press
release talking about the promiscuous
promoter, the expert in the world that
had been doing this type of gene therapy
longer than anyone. His name was Dr. Don
Conn. So in standard fashion, we emailed
Dr. Don Conn and said, "Would you be
willing to work on Angelmen Syndrome?"
And his response was, "Sure, why not?"
And so here we are. It's been two years
and we finally have a human candidate to
be able to push hopefully in the very
near term toward a human clinical trial.
So with that, Donna is going to talk to
you about the journey of hematopoetic
stem cell gene therapy.
Well, thank you amazing Allison. Uh
well, hello everyone. So yes, I why am I
here? Um I'll hopefully by the time I'm
done talking you'll get the connection
between bone marrow transplant and
angelman syndrome and which is still
hypothetical but we hopefully we could
have a therapy that could be beneficial.
Um so um there there's I'm mult in
multiple departments at UCLA. Uh so this
is what I'll I'll talk about. Um I'll
I'll cover sort of a little background
on blood and blood forming hematopoetic
it's a word will be on the test. uh stem
cells and gene therapy. Um and then I'll
talk about the work that Allison
referred to, our work for many years on
severe combined immune deficiency,
that's bubble baby disease, and really
to show you what can be done with this
type of therapy. Um I've been at that
for a long time. Um and we, you know,
now we have it working well. And then
I'll the main part of the talk will be
about Angelman syndrome and how this can
be applied possibly to it. And as
Allison said, the um data in the mouse
that was developed at Davis, which you
heard yesterday from Colin from my lab,
we've completely been able to reproduce
the exact same amazing findings in the
mouse model, underlies the idea of
bringing this to patients.
Uh so first the part about blood and
hematopotic stem cells. So um we don't
all think about blood very much, but if
we take a drop of blood and put it on a
slide and stain it, these are the type
kind of cells that we see in blood. So
there's the red blood cells that are
basically packed with hemoglobin and
carry oxygen. There's a different type
of white cells that are mainly immune
cells and there's the little platelets
down in the corner that stop bleeding.
So all of those cells come from the
hematopoetic or blood forming stem cell
and those are mainly for us in the bone
marrow. And so on on your left there in
in the box are the hematopetic stem cell
sort of like the parent cells for the
blood cells. And so over our life that
population of cells divides and self
renews and maintains a compartment. But
then some of them go on to change and
differentiate to make all the mature
blood cells shown at the right. And so
clinically if we want bone marrow stem
cells to transplant the the classical
way is doing a bone marrow harvest. So
it's an operation where patients the
donor is asleep with needles into the
back of the pelvic bone. We extract bone
marrow. That's largely been replaced
now. although occasionally we we do take
bone marrow. Um, another source is the
umbilical cord blood. So it turns out at
the time a baby is born, they have these
same hematopotic stem cells in
circulation. So if you capture the blood
that's in the umbilical cord, which is
the babies, you can use that to
transplant. Usually there's enough cells
to transplant a child, not often enough
for an adult. And what's most used
commonly now are mobilizing the stem
cells from the bone marrow into the
peripheral blood and collecting them.
I'll show you a diagram of that. So
mobilize peripheral blood. And so the
way I think of these cells is that the
stem cells are the babies. They have
their whole life ahead of themselves.
They become any type of cell. Then in
the middle are the teenagers that
divide, make lots of noise. And um then
at the right are the the adult blood
cells that go to work, do their jobs.
And just one one other point at this
point, there's a protein, a marker on
these cells called CD34. And you'll see
me refer to it several times. It's not
exclusively on the stem cells, but it's
on the stem cells. sort of the other
early cells. So a lot of times when
we're processing cells from a patient,
we'll select those that have that marker
just to enrich our targets.
And and so hematopotic stem cells or
bone transplant has been around for more
than 50 years and mostly it's done for
people with cancer leukemia. So stem
cells from those sources I talked about
bone marrow mobilized peripheralic cord
blood mainly it's for people with
leukemia that didn't respond to the
initial therapy and so we need to give
them higher doses which will basically
wipe out their marrow so then they get
the transplant as a rescue from that. So
treating high-risisk cancers and
leukemia by allowing higher doses of
chemotherapy that would otherwise be
possible hopefully to cure the leukemia
and using the stem cells basically as a
rescue. So that's probably 90 plus
percent of transplants that are done. A
small number are done when there's
marrow failure. So there's a condition
called alastic anemia where the bone
marrow stops working. Can also happen
after exposure to some drugs or
radiation. But we're interested in
number three. And it can be used to
treat genetic diseases. basically if
they're of blood cells or blood related
cells by replacing the patient's
genetically deficient cells with normal
cells either from a donor or in our case
taking the patient's own cells and
making them normal by adding the gene
that they're missing.
And this approach has been shown to cure
a number of diseases. And so um on the
right there might be a little smaller
are just a whole list of various
diseases sort of next to the cell type
they're involved with um where
transplants have been done in patients
and shown to be curative. And so by
giving them a normal stem cell they can
make the red cells they need that for
example for cickle cell disease or the
immune cells for skid and you know on
that list in in yellow is angelmen with
a question mark so we don't know if
it'll work but other diseases in that
group X linked adrenal lucadistrophe
metacchromatic lucadistrophe the the
mucopolyaccharidosis hurlers hunters
MPS3 all those have been treated
successfully by giving bone marrow and
some of those bone marrow stem cells
monocytes that go into the brain that
provide the missing enzyme. And that's
the that's the supposed mechanism by
which angel would would um respond.
And and so the major barrier from
transplanting cells from one person to
another are the immune system. Unless
you're going between identical twins,
there are going to be differences that
are detected by the immune system. So in
a healthy patient the normal patients
the recipients te- cells can reject the
donor cells unless they get high dose
chemotherapy and immune suppression
beforehand. But also the flip side can
occur some of the donor's te- cells that
come along with the bone marrow or the
mobilized peripheral blood in the new
body they're in can see it as foreign
and react against it. That's called
graph versus host disease. So the
grafted cells are attacking their new
host thinking they're just trying to get
rid of something foreign. And as a
clinical transpler, that's what we spend
a lot of our time dealing with that
complication. It's won't happen from an
identical twin. It's possible with a
matched brother or sister who's a sort
of a a full match. They're still not
identical. And higher if you go to a
parent or an unrelated donor.
And and so then just sort of to step
back and put into perspective what we're
talking about gene therapy overall is an
area that over the last 30 40 years has
developed as a way of treating genetic
diseases and sort of can the world can
be divided into Xvivo which what we'll
talk about or invivo. Invivo is where
you put the missing gene right into the
body directly. That's often done with
AAV vectors that we've heard about. Um
or you can put in editing reagents like
crisper or you can put an ASO is to me
sort of a type of gene therapy where
you're manipulating the genes by putting
something directly into the body. And
for example, the first approved gene
therapy in the in the US was for an eye
disease where they put a virus carrying
a gene missing in a in the cells in the
back of the retina to restore vision.
And this has been looked at and there
are are drugs for musculardrophe going
into the brain um into the liver cells.
Um and the other half of the universe is
Xvivo where you take the cells out
manipulate them in the laboratory and
then return them. So we can really only
do that with the blood cells, the
hematopotic stem cells and TE-C cells.
And then sort of the hot new delivery
method that's being looked at are lipid
nano particles. So the same sort of
material that's used to deliver the
COVID vaccine can be targeted to be
given like as an injection and go to a
specific tissue and for example release
crisper editing reagents.
And so we're going to talk about
hematopotic stem cells as a target. But
just sort of put it in perspective of
where that f fits in the whole field of
gene therapy. And then just one other
comment is that all these gene therapies
we're talking about are to manipulate
the patient's body cells, the sematic
cells, but not the germ line. We don't
want what we're doing to get into the
human gene pool. We're not smart enough
yet to to do that. And so part of
getting reviewed and approved by the FDA
is to demonstrate if you're doing invivo
that you will not get into the germ line
and have that be sort of a permanent
change that could get passed along.
And so sort of the hypothesis for for
this is that gene therapy using
autotogus or the patient's own
hematopotic stem cells provides a donor
for every patient themselves. So you
don't have to look for a donor and it
will completely eliminate those risks of
graph versus host disease. And it also
then makes the transplant easier. You
don't need to immune suppress the
patient before the transplant to prevent
rejection or afterwards to control graph
versus host disease. But as we've
learned, you do do need to make some
space in the marrow for the cells to
engraft. And that's done that's called
conditioning. And I'll I'll talk about
that because that's kind of one of the
the biggest issues involved.
And so from an engineering standpoint,
the technical challenge is to get the
normal gene into that long-term stem
cells because those last a lifetime and
can be transplanted and will last a
lifetime in the patient that gets it.
All the other cells to to your right of
that are sort of short-term cells and
will last weeks or months, but won't be
permanent. So a lot of the early
learning in the field is what are those
stem cells and how do we manipulate
them? And the way we do it are either
adding a gene like with a virus that
I'll talk about today or now we can also
edit the genes in the stem cell with
things like crisper where we can fix a
mutation and then it will be passed
along to all the blood cells that'll be
made. It's estimated that each stem cell
once it starts dividing makes literally
billions of other blood cells and if you
get the gene in it permanently that will
get passed along to all the cells that
are made.
And and so just a little about the gene
delivery tool that we're using or
vector. So for stem cells that are going
to divide, you really need to get the
gene to go into the DNA of the target
cell. So it gets copied every time the
cell makes a new copy and gets passed
along. So AAV does not do that. And so
AV although it's efficient delivery, it
doesn't get into the DNA and so it would
get diluted out once the cells start
dividing. And so we've mainly used a
class of viruses called retroviruses.
and one of their submembers called a
lentivirus. So in the laboratory we
clone the needed gene into the virus
packaged into a viral capsid and then
added to the cell. So that sort of arc
is the membrane of the cell. Then the
the genotic genetic information in the
virus gets copied into DNA and goes into
the chromosome and integrates
permanently. So it becomes just part of
the double helix. You've got this little
gene unit that you've added and for
example it could be UB3A expressing that
gene. So in fact there's UB3A going into
the DNA. And so this technology was
developed sort of in the middle 80s
about I just shame to say when I came
into the field and it's really been
developed to a point where it's really
very quite efficient now at modifying
stem cells.
And so this is again sort of another
cartoon of of the process. So we start
with the patient, we collect their stem
cells and then in the laboratory we can
add a gene from the top with an
integrating virus that will go into the
DNA of the cell and be there permanently
or coming up from the bottom we can edit
the cells now with crisper. uh crisper
is generally better for sort of fixing
single mutations but adding a gene will
fix any will override any mutation in
that gene and then before the cells go
back in um they the patients will get
some conditioning chemotherapy to make
space in their marrow so we give the
cells back they they they can land and
grow and I'll show you cartoon of that
and then the cells are given back to the
patient and the transplant is actually
the easiest part it's not a surgery it's
just an infusion of cells like a like a
blood transfusion.
And so this is showing a person giving
mobilized peripheral blood. So they get
a growth factor GCSF nupagen that makes
the white cell count go up. Turns out it
also causes the stem cells to leave the
bone marrow and go into the bloodstream.
So after five days of GCSF sort of
boosted on the last day with another
medicine purify
stem cells in the circulation. So all we
need to do is collect blood from the
patient. So this process called
lucaparesis, some of the patients blood
goes out through an IV line, goes into
that centrifuge that collects the stem
cells, then everything else goes back to
the patient. So over the course of about
3 four hours, we've taken their entire
blood product, blood volume through the
machine two or three or four times and
skimmed off all the stem cells, but
returned everything else to them. So
when they're done, they they still
should have all their other blood cells
and not really have a problem from it.
So this is done usually in a clinical
setting. for kids, we bring them into
the hospital and do it um in the
hospital. And then you get what's shown
in the bottom right, a bag of basically
white blood cells that are very enriched
for stem cells.
And so then this is showing the
processing. So upper left is the patient
getting lucaper in the unit. Then they
go to what we call GMP or good
manufacturing practice lab. That's the
ultra clean room like where you can make
um computer chips or we're making cells
for patients. So we don't want any risk
of contaminating their cells with you
know the the bacteria that are on the on
the workers. So everyone's gowned and
gloved and masked and the air is ultra
filtered etc. The stem cells are brought
there. They're processed to isolate the
CD34 enriching for the stem cells and
they're cultured for two days typically
to add the virus with the with the
missing gene and you know one day that
will be UB3A and then we freeze the
cells. So they're only in culture for
two days. We freeze them down and
besides the main bag of the cells, we
have several vials of the same material
that we can then thaw to test to make
sure every cell took up the gene that
it's sterile. So, we have a whole list
of criteria that are are listed there.
And the cells have to pass 100% of their
criteria to be able to be used and
they're released by the quality
assurance unit of the GMP. Um, and then
they're ready for the patient and then
they're just infused as shown there
through an IV.
And so the elephant in the room I think
in in transplant is conditioning as we
refer to it. And so conditioning is
where we give chemotherapy to make
space. And in different types of
transplants we'd either sort of give
full condition where we really try and
wipe out basically all the bone marrow.
So all the cells that grow afterwards
come from what you gave back or in some
cases like skid we only need to do that
partially or in some cases we don't do
that at all. So here's my Los Angeles
sporting college team analogy. So if
your marrow is filled with all these USC
footballs and then um you either you
give no conditioning, full conditioning
or reduced intensity, that's kind of
what you have afterwards. So if you give
no conditioning, there's very little
space in the stem cell niche. If you
give give full conditioning, you've
really opened things up for cells to
engraft. And if you give sort of an
intermediate amount, you open up some
space. And now we give the UCLA
basketball stem cells.
And so with no conditioning, there's
very little engraftment of the cells.
And we actually had a trial in the early
2000s where we started out not giving
conditioning. We didn't get engraftment.
We then this is again for skid patients
that we started giving conditioning and
everyone engrafted. So in that study, we
kind of proved at least in that setting,
it's essential to make some space. And
if you fully abladed the marrow with
highdose chemotherapy, then you
basically it's taken over completely by
the cells you've given back. And that's
what I think we'd want to do for
Angelmen.
But this this is again the probably the
most difficult part of a transplant, the
conditioning. So the conditioning
currently used prior to infusion of the
gene modified cells is a chemotherapy
drug called buculan. And it's given over
three to four days before the transplant
only. So it's not like multiple courses
of chemotherapy. It's just four days of
getting this drug twice a day typically.
And that will completely wipe out the
bone marrow stem cells. And actually the
patients are usually okay the days
they're getting it. So it's kind of
different than if any of you have
experience with a relative getting
chemotherapy. It's really over the next
few weeks that they they will have the
effects of that. So some of those
effects are are listed there. So they
may get a condition called mucousitis
where the mucous membranes of the mouth
are irritated because they're a dividing
cell. So the chemotherapy hits them. And
so often the patients for a week or two
won't really be able to eat and we'll
need to get introvenous feeding might
need pain medicines. So that's kind of
again the the hardest part of it but
people get through that but it's it's
challenging and and certainly may be
more challenging in patients with
Angelmen. Um typically from that amount
of chemotherapy the hair will fall out
in a week or two but it comes back. Uh
but you know again for some patients
that's very upsetting obviously. Um
there may be nausea and vomiting
although we really have very good drugs
now to control that. So usually there
isn't a lot of that. Um rarely the drug
can cause liver damage. mainly we see it
in people who've had a lot of
chemotherapy before like for leukemia.
Um and one of the other side effects
that may cause infertility because the
egg forming cells and the sperm forming
cells are also sensitive to the
chemotherapy. And so there are ways in
advance to preserve egg or sperm for um
future use if if interested. Um and then
there's hypothetically low risks of late
cancer or lung problems. We haven't seen
that really very commonly, but that
that's it's it's at least a risk. Uh and
so that's again, you know, I think it's
important to really address that because
that's the hardest part of a of a
transplant. So that means getting your
child through a couple of weeks which
they're they're not very happy. They
need medicines. They need introvenous
feeding, meaning they'll need to have an
introvenous line that whole time.
There are a lot of new things coming
along, ways to replace the chemotherapy
with antibodies to stem cells to
eliminate them without really those kind
of complications. They're not quite
there yet. There there's it's promising.
Then there's also sort of the the
challenge of getting it commercially
approved. So I think in five years or so
maybe we'll be able to stop using
chemotherapy.
Uh so then just sort of more about the
transplant. So on your left that's nurse
Lindsay bringing Ava's transplant
bucket. So every child before their
transplant, we fill up a buck with all
the tubes and connectors and everything
they might need. In the middle is that
tank that looks sort of like R2-D2.
That's a liquid nitrogen transport tank
that has the stem cell in there. And
then on the right is the thawed stem
cell bag. And so you can kind of see
there's an air fluid level. So the
little bit of cloudiness below that,
that's the stem cell graft. So that
might be a 100 million or 200 million
stem cells. and that will be enough to
repopulate their bone marrow and make
their blood cells for the rest of their
life. So that's kind of the most amazing
part I think. And so here's a here's a
patient who had skid getting his
transplant. And so on the left you can
see that syringe is kind of cloudy.
Again, those are his stem cell graft.
The tube on the right is just the saline
flush. So those cells are just over five
or 10 minutes. They're slowly pushed in
through their IV line. They get into the
body. they they go through the body and
they'll make their way to the bone
marrow and stick and start growing.
So that's sort of the that's sort of the
background on stem cell transplant. Um
and so now I want to talk about our
experience with severe commit immune
deficiency to show you what what can be
done and what what the results can be.
So this is a a famous child for those of
you who are of my generation. This is
David Veter, the boy in the bubble. So
this was a young man who was born in
Houston, Texas in the early 70s. His
younger brother had just died of the
recently described disease called Skid.
So at birth he was put into isolation,
tested and found to have it. And he he
was tested and his one sister was not a
match. So there wasn't a way to
transplant him. So he was kept in a
sterile environment for 13 years. So it
was very much in the media because
what's mankind country that were keeping
people in bubbles and eventually he had
a transplant from his sister and died of
complications at 13. Um and he had that
disease severe combined immune
deficiency.
And so we've worked on this disease
again since I've been working on it
since the mid 80s. Um and this is the
work since I've been at UCLA of over
time all the patients we've
transplanted. So we've done multiple
trials iteratively trying sort of
version 1.0 0 seeing what worked, what
didn't work, coming back with version
2.0, and we're sort of currently in
version 3.0, which is on your right,
which is using a lentiviral vector. So,
lentiviral vectors are what are mainly
used now for putting genes permanently
into hematopotic stem cells. And it
needs to be said they're derived from
the HIV virus. That's lenti is the class
of viruses that belongs to. All the
virus genes are removed and replaced by
the gene to be carried. and they've
never caused a problem like causing
immune deficiency like like AIDS, but
they're actually very well adapted at
getting into human cells. So, we've done
a number of trials with that that virus
that I'll tell you about. So, that's the
map of the virus. So, let me kind of
walk you through it. So, in the middle
is the human ADA gene and we've tweaked
it. We've cod and optimized it. So there
are different letter combinations like a
AAA and a AAU and AAC that code for the
same amino acid bey put into the protein
and cells have favorites and so if you
change the sequence to have the
favorites you make the same protein but
you make it more efficiently. So it's
coden optimized ADA sequence and then
the promoter in front of it that as we
heard yesterday from that great talk by
Dr. James is sort of the control unit
that drives it is from a cellular gene
called elong elongation factor short.
So, it's a promoter that will drive
production of a gene, but it can't
interfere with nearby genes. And as I'll
show you, we we have a great deal of
safety data. And so, we actually
developed this jointly with colleagues
in in London. And so, over the last
decade, we've done trials in parallel,
same batches of vector, same protocol.
And um I'll show you as of now, we we've
reported 62 patients treated. This was a
little earlier when we did trials both
in in London and at Los Angeles.
So this is sort of the the patient
journey through the gene therapy. So the
first part is talking to the family
discussing risks alternatives etc. And
if they agree having them sign the
informed consent then having screening
tests just to make sure they meet the
criteria and it's things like echo EKG
blood tests to just to make sure they're
they're healthy enough to go through the
transplant. If they are then they then
come into the hospital for the stem cell
collection. So they'll get injections
five days in a row of GCSF. They'll get
a dose of that drug puriferesis
for one or two days to collect their
stem cells. Then they go home the next
day. The cells go to the laboratory for
doing the kind of processing I talked
about. So we isolate the CD34 cells. We
add the lentiviral vector with the
normal ADA gene and freeze them down to
cryopreserve them. And then it takes
about a month or so to test them to make
sure they meet all those criteria. I
talked about sterility took up the gene
etc. And then when we know that the
cells are are good and they're signed
off by the QA unit, the patient comes
back for the second admission. And this
is the transplant admission. So they'll
come into the hospital, they'll get a a
central line placed, either a long IV
line, a pick line in their elbow or
actually a surgically placed central
line that can stay in for months are are
quite secure although I have seen once
two kids pull them out. And then they'll
starting that day, we'll give them their
their chemotherapy. So showing bulfin on
Monday and it turns out that the
metabolism of bulfin differs a lot
person to person. So we actually
personalize it. We measure how quickly
the person cleared that first dose and
we adjust their later doses to try and
total um area under the curve or
exposure to the drug. And so we've
gotten much better at at targeting it
precisely. And then um on Friday, so it
start on Monday. On Friday they get
their cells. So again we bring the cells
to the bedside we thaw them. We infuse
them. and they're kind of done with the
transplant and hopefully it it will have
an effect, but then they have that few
weeks afterward from the side effects of
the chemotherapy.
And this was the frozen trial. This is
the first time we did frozen cells. We
call it the frozen trial.
And so we've done this now for um around
50 more than 50 or 60 patients with with
this antiviral vector. We did some
earlier ones and this is just a map of
where they came from. So rare diseases
like this, the patients are not all in
Los Angeles. So they're all over and we
basically had patients from the US and
Canada. So I actually got better at
relearning my Canadian geographies I
learned in third or fourth grade. Uh so
there's arrows from the different trials
showing where the patients came from.
And so you we would bring the families
out to Los Angeles for the stem cell
collection they would go home. They
would come back for the collection and
while they're there we'd have the
patient stay at Ronald McDonald House or
a hotel like that. And uh usually in our
transplant unit one patient can sleep
one parent can sleep in the room
overnight.
And so we reported our results. Uh this
is now four years ago. This was a report
of 50 patients, 30 treated by UCLA, 30
at Great Orman Street Hospital in London
with this approach that I talked about
using CD34 cells that lentiviral vector
lower dose bulfan. And what we reported
was 100% of the patients were alive and
well and they still are to the present
time. And 96% of them were event-free
survival. So we define an event sort of
it failed and they need to go back and
have a transplant. And so we had four we
had two patients the initial group where
the cells just didn't grow and they
needed to go back on the enzyme and then
then have a they had a transplant later.
Uh and then so we just had another paper
come out two weeks ago sort of following
that cohort plus another 12 that were
done in London sort of a year later. And
so in this paper we reported 62 patients
with ADA skid treated again at UCLA and
Gosh between 2012 and 2018. So now we're
reporting how do they look a decade out
basically. So what the time we analyze
the data was 2023. So actually they're
two years beyond that point now. And
what we're able to report was that it
was completely persistent and stable. So
all the patients had stable. We measure
the the gene and the blood cells in the
circulation. We measure their te- cell
numbers etc. no change after the first
six months or so and really quite quite
good. They had good immunity. There were
no complications from the gene therapy
or from the vector in any of our
patients.
And then this is just one graph. It's
kind of small, but just shows different
T- cell populations that we measured
over time are all stable out to 10 to 12
years. And so we we hope this will be
stable for their lifetime. We don't know
that yet till we follow them for their
lifetime, but it really looks like this
is persisting. And so that's, you know,
that's obviously very important to have
a long-term effect. So the stem cells
that we took out of the body, put the
gene into, put back are still now in the
bone marrow making blood cells.
And in fact, at least 18 different blood
cell diseases or genetic diseases have
been treated by this approach. So this
is a list that I sort of keep myself of
all the diseases that have been reported
in clinical trials or at meetings
treated by this approach of lentiviral
vectors putting the missing gene into
hematopetic stem cells. And so on the
list the top two on the left are genes I
mentioned before adrenolucadistrophe and
metacromatic lucodistrophe which are
neurodeenerative disorders. And by
giving them gene corrected bone marrow
and getting cells going into the brain
they make the missing enzyme and really
stop the neurodeeneration. and the on
the top right MPS one and three are also
similar uh diseases like that have been
treated and so angelin has not been
treated by a bone marrow transmitter by
gene therapy yet but if it follows the
rules that these other diseases did it
should be beneficial so in all these
trials lentiviral vectors have had an
excellent safety profile one exception
being actually an ALD and Allison
referred to this that virus they used
had a mouse retrovirus element driving
the gene and those can cause a problem
and coming soon we're working on
alphathalmia but we're also working on
angelman syndrome and hopefully they
will be on this list in a few years as
having been successfully treated. So let
me talk now about how this would apply
to Angelman syndrome.
And so this is another view of the
hematopotic stem cells making blood
cells. And the important thing is on the
left one of the blood cells that's made
are monocytes. And monocytes are cells
that become mainly become macroofagages
or big eaters and they're in tissues.
They're in the blood. Some subset of
those monocytes cross the bloodb brain
barrier and turn into microgallike
cells. The afficionados don't allow us
to call them true microglea because
those only happen in the embryo, but
they functionally are microgal cells.
And then this is sort of a little more
complicated version. So on your lower
right shows that in uterero cells from
the bone marrow go into the brain and
form the micro gal cells that you're
born with. But post-natally after you're
born, cells from the bone marrow can
make monocytes that can go across the
brain and make microgallike cells. And
that's accelerated by a bone marrow
transplant. And in fact, the bulfan
besides increasing engraftment into the
bone marrow also increase engraftment of
microgal cells into the brain.
Um and then the the other aspect of this
is cross correction. So the the UB3A
gene that was developed with by FAS with
um the group at Davis is designed to
actually have the protein be secreted
from the micro gal cells so it can be
taken up by the neurons. And I think
that's kind of this the secret sauce of
this. And so if you got these microgal
cells that came from the stem cells with
the gene, they actually can release the
protein and cure the neurons around
them.
And so uh actually Colin showed a
version of this yesterday where the
procedure then is collecting the stem
cells from the patient adding the virus
with the UB3A gene transplanting them
back in and over time they will then
make microgle cells in in the brain.
And so this is a slide from the work
done at at UC Davis and they they really
pioneered this work and we're kind of
really riding in their wake. So they
made a lentiviral vector and this was
the one made from mouse. It has the
mouse UB3A gene and it uses that
retroviral promoter to drive expression
of the gene. So it's it's very strong
and make a lot of the product and they
did very nice work in the mouse model
again as Allison said curing all aspects
behavioral that's the the graph on the
bottom right is uh delta power showing
that it's hard to read but the the delta
power in the transplanted mice was as
good as in the neurotypic wild type
mice. But the problem was the promoter
element they used is the one that was
shown sort of about as this work was
being done in ALD to have risks of
triggering leukemia.
And so um and this is a paper describing
the ALD studies where patients were
cured of their disease by the gene
therapy but over time an increasing
numbers of them developed sort of an
early pre-lukemia and some of it went
out to leukemia because that viral
element turned on cellular growth genes
and that's kind of been known as a risk
and so most of the field has moved away
from from using that um and instead
using like we use for the ADA that that
has a very good safety record. So our
primary goal when when Allison first
came to us was to make a vector that
would work as well as the other one but
that was safer that would have control
elements that wouldn't risk turning on
genes near where they land
and then ultimately that comes to now
translating this to a clinical trial of
gene therapy
and so the work that I'm going to
present now was done by Roger Hollis is
the lead scientist Christopher Luther's
who spoke here last year and who is
amazing um started work and then Colin
Jwitt who spoke yesterday has been
carrying it on since since Chris off
Chris Chris finished his PhD and is at
the CDC to become an epidemiologic
intelligence service officer which will
be great for the world but we we miss
him and so they made a series of
lentiviral vectors that have the UB3A
gene in them and use different promoters
so we made one like the Davis one with
the M &D promoter as our sort of
comparator or then we used one with an
EFS promoter that's in our ADA vector or
another promoter or PGK that's also been
used in a number of clinical trials and
been shown to be safe. And so our
question was can we make one that will
work as well as the M &D1 with a with a
better safety profile.
And so this is a western blot showing
the level of expression of UB3A protein
are those bands and the two on your left
are our new modified vectors. And again,
we did that trick of codon optimizing
the gene. So it makes more protein. And
by doing that, we're actually making
more copies of the pro more amount of
the protein than the one with just the M
andd promoter driving the wild type
gene.
And so then we went out to do a number
of studies again following what Davis
had done and guided a lot by Allison and
Jennifer on these studies taking these
different vectors putting them into the
mouse model and then doing behavioral
and EEG and uh histoemical studies and
I'll just show you a little of it
because again Colin presented this
yesterday. So we used either the EFS
driven promoter the PGK or we didn't
modify the cells we just mock
transplanted cells that still were not
corrected or we took bone marrow from
wild type neurotypic mice or from the
angel mice. We had five groups of mice.
This graph is just showing the level of
engraftment. The panel on the left we
actually always used male donors into
females. So we could measure how much
cells are engrafted by measuring the Y
chromosome for the male cells. And so
the the the groups at the top uh were
the ones that um in in the blood are um
uh in are the two different vectors PGK
and E EGFP and sorry EFS and PGK. So the
the bands in the middle are in the blood
and the bone marrow. So we have 80 90%
engraftment of the donor cells. And then
the lower left of that panel are
measuring the male cells in the brain.
And so they're there. about 100fold
lower, but that's because most of the
brain has other cells in it. And then on
the right is measuring the vector copy
numbers where you have about one to two
copies of the vector in the blood cells.
And again, the brain lower, but still
about a half a percent or so of cells
with the the gene in the brain. And then
we saw all the same kind of amazing uh
behavioral improvements. So this is on
the left, open field that measures sort
of their mobility. And the lower two
bands are the untreated angelman mice or
those that got just angelman marrow. And
the bands above it are the ones that got
either the wild type marrow or with
either of our vectors. The roto rod
assay that we saw a nice video of
yesterday shows that the mice that got
gene therapy performed as well as the
wild type mice in terms of their ability
to stay on the the rotating rod. Um and
then these are other measurements of
cognitive function novel object
recognition. And again, the gene therapy
mice performed as well as the wild type
mice as Davis had shown with with their
vector.
And then here and here's the EEGs.
Um, and so sort of our conclusion from
the mouse studies that again Chris
presented last year when we were sort of
mid-stream of those and now Colin has
finished up and we have a paper that's
under review. Both the EFS and the PGK
driven vectors had improved expression
over the potentially encoenic M andD
vector. The treated mice showed improved
motor and cognitive function during
behavioral assays. The treated mouse
delta powered measured by EEG was
reduced to wild type levels. And the
iminochemistry, which I didn't show,
Allison actually showed some very nice
pictures yesterday on the brain slices
showed that the protein is being made in
the brain. And we can actually see it in
the neurons. So presumably it's leaving
the micro gleal cells and being taken up
by the nerve cells.
And so you the question is you know mice
are mice and can the excellent benefits
that we see in the mouse models will
that bear have any bearing on what we
see in patients. Um and again the mice
that we treated they were transplanted
about 6 to 8 weeks of age which sort of
like a late teenager in in human
development. And so they weren't infant
mice and so at least at that age uh
there there was benefit that that
persists. We've studied, we usually
study them about four months later.
And so with uh fast and with
transformatics, we applied to the
California Institute for Regenerative
Medicine, our our stem cell uh funding
agency in California for a grant to ter
carry this forward. And so the grant is
a trans one, which is a translational
grant. Um and our goals are to start out
by having the vector that we made in our
laboratory made under commercial
standards. So it would be suitable for
human use. and that's going on right
now. And then that same manufacturing
company will be the one that will make
the cells for the patients. Uh then we
need to do various tests for safety. So
put the cells into immune deficient mice
for example and make sure they don't
cause any complications. We'll need a
clinical protocol which is drafted but
we need to sort of finalize that the
informed consent document for a trial
and then we would meet with the FDA. And
so to do a clinical trial any new
substance, you need an investigational
new drug or IND permit from FDA. And FDA
is very helpful at letting you meet with
them in advance. And so a preINDD
meeting is when you meet with them and
tell them what your plans are, show them
the data you have so far and they will
tell you is that enough or what else you
need to do to apply for approval. And so
we'll have a preINDD meeting. We'll do
whatever studies additional they they
want us to do and they would submit that
application to the FDA to do a clinical
trial. So the hope is to open up a trial
for this within a few years.
And so I'll just leave with some
questions. You know, there there's a lot
of unknowns obviously and as a physician
and as a scientist I try and you know
deal with reality and you know so I
think there's a lot of things we we
don't know. We we know it works well in
mice but for example first of all will
it be feasible for Angelment patients to
undergo this procedure? it means about a
month or more in the hospital with IV
lines um and going through and getting
recovering from the chemotherapy. So,
it'll be a challenge for the patient and
the families, but we we've done other
people with um disabilities and gotten
them through the transplants. Um will it
be safe? Are there unique problems
inherent to Angelmen that might get
might make it more risky? And then
ultimately, will it be effective at
improving their clinical features?
That's that's what we're hoping to see.
So I will stop there and just show you
this is my lab group as of last summer.
So we have little army of people
working. Colin's way in the back of the
picture.
And then this is our acknowledgement
slide. So again the work at our lab
Roger Hollis is leading it. Chris Luther
did a lot of the initial work. Colin is
finishing up with a number of other
people assisting him. We've had a number
of labs at UCLA that assisted us. And
then we've done this very much as a
partnership with FAST. And then we have
the recent funding from SERM that
hopefully will let us take this to the
clinic. And I'll stop there. Thank you.
Sorry about that. Thank you so much for
such a great presentation and really
really important work. Um obviously all
individuals with Angelman syndrome are
missing a functional copy of UB3A
but as we heard yesterday many with the
deletion genotype may also be missing um
or hapo insufficient for many genes. If
this is proven to work do you foresee a
future where maybe individuals could
receive an individualized set of genes
for those that they're they're needing.
>> Yeah. So it's as very hard to hear up
here the the echo but I think the
question was about would this work for
people with deletion if if that's was
that the main point of the question
>> can the the other genes so yeah I don't
know that and so this is my first time
here so I I I that's a question
obviously I've been thinking about a lot
since being here and a question is
should we start just with people with
mutation um and then see that works we
also need to get the mouse with the
deletion and and test if you just
replace the gene. If you need to replace
the other ones, then you know you you
could you could probably put two genes
in the same vector, but if you need
multiple genes, it might be more
challenging. Uh there are techniques
being developed to put larger pieces of
DNA into cells and they work in the
laboratory, but not very efficient for
primary stem cells. So I'm not I'm not
sure how how that would be approached.
Um, and I, you know, hopefully the
research will hone down what are the
other critical ones in the deletion area
and maybe one or two of those could be
added at the same time.
And something else just to add related
to that is that we all know UB3 is the
major gene that dramatically impacts
phenotype. The other genes may
contribute, but it also might be
marginal. So I think with all the
therapies being developed for deletion
or any genotype UB3 replacement is the
first step and then dealing with the
other genes maybe a different modality
an ASO a crisper editor a different
technology that might be piled on top of
something like this I don't think this
technology will solve all of it
certainly not for the next 10 years
>> one question back there and then we're
going to move
Okay. I was just wondering um would this
work for patients with UPD?
>> Do you want me to answer that?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Um yes. So just like any gene
replacement therapy, any genotype that
is loss of function, meaning not
producing, making or expressing UB3A,
which would be deletion, loss of
function, mutation, UPD or ICD or even
mosaic would all benefit potentially
from replacing UB3A. So this would
likely be um genotype agnostic outside
of mutations that could have any gain of
function or dominant negative effect. So
it would be any loss of function
genotype.
Similar to the AV gene therapy that
we'll be talking about next.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> We'll ask more questions on the panel
and certainly reach out throughout the
breaks. Feel free to walk up to Dr. Conn
and tell him all about your child.