Our next speakers, we have a tag team um
of Dr. Jim Wilson from historically I'm
gonna you good you turn that off for me.
Um from the University of Pennsylvania
now at Gemma Gemma Biootherrapeutics and
Dr. Elizabeth Barry Cravis who no one
needs to introduce um who is the
director of the fast translational
neuroscience research center at Rush
University Medical Center. But before
they get on the stage I wanted to share
something with you. I won't take too
much of your time.
I want to share with you a moment
because I think it's really critical and
I think you saw it in our in the last
speaker as well but I was searching for
how long we've been talking to Jim and
as you know Jim's been here and coming
to this conference since 2016
and we've been talking about a gene
therapy for Angelmen syndrome since that
time and I dug in to see when we talked
for the first time. June 17th, 2016.
An email subject gene therapy and
angelman syndrome. Dear Dr. Wilson, I
want to reach out to you in hopes to
have a more serious conversation about
the the potential to work with you and
your team at the University of
Pennsylvania and helping to push a gene
therapy program forward for Angelmen
Syndrome. You seem like the perfect
person to collaborate with, having a
sense of urgency and rigor. I'm a
veterinarian that trained at the
veterary hospital of the University of
Pennsylvania and was an assistant
professor there prior to starting my own
clinical research program in New York
City. I'm a veterinary internist and
interventional radiologist and run a
research program on various medical
devices and autogenous
and allergenic stem cell therapy in
delivery for regenerative medicine for
different complicated and challen
challenging diseases. I've been running
clinical trials my entire career on the
veterinary side using natural models of
disease. I get calls daily from
desperate pet owners looking for hope
for treatments for their loved ones.
Well, one and a half years ago, I got on
the other side of that phone call when
my daughter was diagnosed with Angelmen
syndrome. If you are unaware, this is a
rare monogenic neurogenetic disorder
affecting one in 12,000 people that
involves a missing or mutated gene on
chromosome 15. This gene is known as
UB3A. And this has pretty dramatic
effects on children resulting in
developmental delays, intractable
seizures, lack of speech, ataxi,
dyspraxia, and sleep issues. The good
news is that the condition has not been
associated with any degenerative changes
in the brain and the brain is
anatomically normal. This gene is
imprinted, but it has lack of expression
only in neurons.
So there's a perfectly normal copy on
the paternal alil. This condition has
been treated with various forms of gene
therapy and gene editing and we're now
aiming to move this forward to bring
this to clinical trials in humans. The
clinical work, the pre-clinical work is
done, but we would love to have the help
of someone like you and your team to
help us bring this to our children. We
know this is possible and we want to do
this now. Since our diagnosis, I have
gotten very involved in the foundation
for Angelmen Syndrome Therapeutics and I
have recently been asked to join their
board of directors and become their
chief science officer. I have been
working closely with a consortium of
scientists that are incredible and have
been involved in bringing meaningful
therapeutics to these children. Gene
therapy is our goal. We are on a mission
to get this to our kids in the short
shortest possible timelines, but we must
ensure rigor and safety. A paper was
published which I have attached for you
showing that this can be done in the
adult mouse model. We want to get this
and the best people on board to move
this forward to our children. And I
would love the opportunity to talk to
you more about where we are and if your
team would be willing at the University
of Pennsylvania to take this on. I sent
that email on June 17th at 12:48 p.m. I
received a response on June 17th at 6:03
p.m. His response, "Thank you for your
note. I will be in touch once I have a
chance to talk to my team, Jim."
He is a man of few words,
but he never let that go. And I can tell
you now since that first email in 2016,
I have 1,672
emails with Dr. Jim Wilson.
So that just shows you the power of
parents. We did this with Dr. Conn. We
did this with Dr. Wilson. And I did this
with Yang Jiang. And I probably have
5,787
emails with Yang. But with that, I am so
happy to present to you Dr. Dr. Jim
Wilson and Dr. Elizabeth Barry Cravis.
If both of you want to come up on the
stage to talk about MVX220, a gene
replacement therapy for Angelmen
syndrome.
It's a pleasure to be back. Been here
many times. When I was preparing to
travel yesterday, I talked to my wife,
Lisa, 42 years, and told her that I
think there's really an important
milestone that we're going to be able to
discuss. And she turned to me and she
said, "What took you so long?
Uh she feels a sense of urgency as well.
So, it's really a pleasure to be up here
with Liz and uh to give you an update on
the status of the program that we've
been talking to you about for quite a
while.
as as I thought about how to develop
gene therapy um broadly uh during the
time that I've been involved in the
field,
we we think about what's called a
platform. And what is a platform? Here's
an example of a of treatment of a
disease with an AV vector where we
insert a gene into the vector and treat
patients with a disease. A platform uh
is such that all you do is just swap out
the gene to treat a different disease
and just iterate this
and this is the platform that we've
developed that we wanted to deploy for
Angelman syndrome. So what are the
advantages or what are the features of a
platform? Uh the features are often
there are common disease pathologies but
most importantly uh the same target
cells that we want to achieve. They're
not liver cells. They're they're
neurons. The same delivery vehicle, the
capsid, the same route of
administration, the same dose, and the
same manufacturing process. If if we can
capture a platform with all those
similarities, then there's significant
advantages. One of which is the chances
of a success after we've had a success
are much higher. Uh the chances of
safety, if it's been safe, are also much
higher. uh it simplifies the path to the
clinic, accelerates timelines which are
always important uh and it is more
efficient from a fundraising or a
capital standpoint. So the the platform
that we've been developing over many
years for treating CNS disease is again
what we engage with Allison and uh after
she first contacted us.
But with that said, uh I would like to
describe uh a way in which many have
tried to treat diseases of muscle and
brain by injecting a vector in into the
uh circulation or the blood to target
these organs. And the reason I bring
this up is because there has been a lot
of toxicity that has been highly
publicized and it's something I wanted
to bring up here and we can also talk
about at the panel. What I show here is
an experiment that I did with Ron
Crystal where we actually put a radio
label on our vector so we could trace
it. Uh and these experiments were done
in a monkey. You can see the outline of
the monkey there. Uh so when you inject
a vector into the blood uh and it
highlights as black.
The organ that takes the vector up
primarily is the liver and you can see
how dark it is. And the reason is that
the the capillaries have large holes in
them. And a vector is a large molecule.
So the the liver is sort of like a
sponge and it goes to the liver. But in
order for a vector to get from the blood
to the brain, you have to cross the
bloodb brain barrier. Uh and that's hard
to do. And in this example of a first
generation uh vector injected IV, you do
not see the brain lighting up. So as I
through many years of experience in many
different trials, we've developed a
model for how an intravenously delivered
AAV will function in targeting the
organs of of interest. And in this
figure I have uh on the um y ais the the
number of vector genomes that get into a
tissue and versus dose and dose is
really important. So as we increase dose
from 10 the 12th to 10 the 14th the
liver is the organ that usually takes it
up first then ultimately the heart and
then muscle and brain but in order to
get vector into muscle and brain
requires very high doses a number that
is important to know is 10 the 14 genome
copies per kilogram. This is where we
start to see toxicity that can be
lethal. So the so-called therapeutic
window, the difference between getting a
vector into the brain versus where we're
going to have severe toxicity is very
short. Uh although there is an approved
product for treating a neurologic
disease, spinal muscular atrophy type
one uh which it can cure patients but
also associated with a lot of toxicity.
So what we decided to do was to try a
different approach uh where we would
inject a vector not through the blood to
get to the bloodb brain barrier but
injected into the cerebral spinal fluid.
Uh and this is a an experiment in this
same monkey model comparing the
distribution of the vector um when you
inject it into the the vein again you
see the the liver exposed but when you
inject the vector into the cerebral
spinal fluid it's a very different
picture. Now uh I'm going to point out
uh in a minute different ways to inject
a vector in the cerebral spinal fluid
but the way that we decided to proceed
is to inject it in access point of the
cerebral spinal fluid closer to the
brain which is called the sister magna.
So when you compare an intravenous dose
versus
an ICM which is a cyestern maganga
approach you see far less in liver and
much more in brain. I also thought it
would be important to bring up to the
community well why don't we just inject
a vector into the lumbar space because
this is the route of administration many
of you are used to for anti-sense aligan
nucleotides. So we did an experiment
directly comparing the same dose of
vector in the cesterna magna versus a
lumbar injection. Uh this is the
cesterna magna and this is the lumbar
injection in monkeys. And you can see
that uh it really doesn't get to the
brain AV vectors when injected through
the lumbar space as opposed to ASOs that
do. Although if you wanted to treat a
disease that affected the spinal cord,
uh this may be okay. So that's why we
selected the ICM and we're going to hear
some exciting work in the next talk by a
company called Epura where they're
actually trying to engineer the AAV to
more efficiently cross this bloodb brain
barrier. Um,
so what would this mean when you think
about what you've heard for the studies
of neurologic treatments, even RED
syndrome and others with an IV approach.
Um, this is uh sort of pictorially the
quantity of vector you would need. But
for an ICM approach, it's about
depending on the size of the patient up
to 20fold less. So that means there'll
be less exposure to the vector and also
less to make and potentially cheaper uh
to develop.
So we spent um most of the last 10 to 15
years doing a lot of things but one of
which is to developing this platform in
a way in which we could evaluate safety
and efficacy and it was really focusing
on diseases in which there is a
bystander effect like we think there is
for Angelmen. But these are lethal
pediatric diseases of really no
treatment. And this is our CNS platform
that we called. So there's this delivery
vehicle called the AV vector. We keep
that the same because we want a lot of
sameness in the platform. It's a Cerna
Magna delivery.
A manufacturing process we've kept the
same. It's a it's a fermentation
approach. And over the years, we vetted
this and 500 over well over 500 571
non-human primates or monkeys in various
different ways to make sure we had a
good handle on safety.
So then over these years uh we've uh
started companies, we've licensed these
programs into these companies and I'll
just give you an update on that because
this is the context in which we're
bringing forward gene therapy for
Angelman syndrome. So starting with
Hunter syndrome uh started a company
called Regenics Bio. Uh this product
should be approved in February. So
that'll be a really important
achievement for the platform. There's
another disease called Hurler syndrome
very similar finish phase one two is in
uh uh pivotal studies. Uh at that point
the company didn't want to do any more
of what I asked them to do. So I had to
start another company called uh um
Gemmaab Bio. And we've spun out this uh
subsidiary called Rare for very severe
lethal infantile diseases. GM1 finished
phase one studies talking to FDA about
BLAS's
uh crab a uh inphase one studies again
lethal in the first two years of age and
then metacromatic lucodistrophe.
What this has provided us through the
platform approach is an idea of safety
from a procedural standpoint and also
from a product standpoint and we have a
pretty good experience in terms of
safety. You can never rule something
rule out something happening but is this
background of safety that I began uh to
develop more comfort in bringing this
forward with Angelman syndrome. The
other thing is the efficacy data of gene
transfer and the durability that we saw
in the mouse models actually translated
into humans. So one one aspect uh that
Liz may comment on is the is the route
of administration which uh we like it to
be close to the brain so it would get to
the brain and it's the ICM delivery.
Just to give you an idea of the
experience, uh these are centers around
the world where PEN interventional
radiologists have trained operators by
bringing them into our uh IR suites and
proctoring them uh on human cadaavvers
or on monkeys to asssure that they're
capable of doing the procedure. It's a
single injection like a lumbar
injection. So 42 hospitals with trained
physicians, 18 companies have sought our
help and the age range in which this has
uh been delivered is between six months
to 80 years of age. And the rock star
here is Brian Pukamis who's really t
took it upon himself after a brief
conversation I had with him many years
ago uh to uh to promote and to asssure
that any product that's delivered this
way, it's delivered safely.
So the timeline uh that um uh Allison
had described and that my wife commented
on uh is how long it took. So we we
published our first paper on an ICM
delivery in monkeys in 2014
and in 2018 was the first patient dose
with MPS2.
Soon thereafter, MPS1 had to start
another company and then GM1 and then
Crab A and ultimately the first approved
product uh hopefully will be February of
this year. And as we were proceeding
with this program, we were considering
other applications including Angelmen
and we were fortunate to receive our
first grant from FAST to get us dialed
into Angelmen syndrome in 2017.
uh uh made the first vector, did the
first mouse, did primate studies, and
all looked like it was tracking. And
then fortunately um we were able to
continue to work with fast uh to
progress this program, and we had an IND
open uh in April of this year. And as
Liz's going to describe, the first
patient dosed uh just last week. So um
before I pass it off, I I just want to
take a Thank you.
Just really want to thank um fast uh AS2
Bio and Gemmaab Bio uh Heather Bourne
and Juliet Hordo the ones that really
toiled in the lab uh to do all this work
are with us today and uh thank them.
Thank you for your confidence, your
patience. Uh, and at this point, um,
it's an extreme pleasure for me to
so-called pass the baton, uh, to Liz,
and she's going to tell you about the
trial. So, thank you very much.
Okay, it's like I can advance it myself.
Yes. All right. Um, I'm going to talk to
you about the trial and um, thanks Jim
for that great introduction and all the
work that led up to this. I I'm really
just standing on the backs of all the
people who have gone before and done all
the development. And so um I'm going to
describe the trial which is called MVX
AAV1 and it's the first in human phase
one two trial of an AAV hue 68 modified
UB3A intracestern magagna gene therapy
in Angelman syndrome and more simply
it's just the first gene therapy study
in Angelman syndrome and it's being run
by Maverick's bio it's being called
ascend angelman syndrome or ascendas
um these are my disclosures I work with
a lot of companies that are developing
disease targeted therapies for
neurodedevelopmental disorders and any
funding received goes to Rush in support
of our rare disease programs.
Um so what is the ADN noirus uh gene
therapy AEV? You've just heard Jim,
you've heard talks on this before. The
AEVS are little viruses not known to
cause disease in people. Um it's been
used in hundred hundreds of clinical
trials and um AAV is one of the most
common vectors that's been used in gene
therapy. Um it's used to carry a gene
that's missing or nonfunctional and put
the right gene back in. And so it's good
at targeting neurons and that's one of
the reasons it's been chosen for a lot
of neurological treatments. Um and it
can be administered in various different
ways. And so this just shows you a
cartoon. You've got a defective gene.
You want to put the normal gene in or
therapeutic gene in. So you put the gene
into the viral capsid and take out the
replicative machinery of the virus.
Basically it becomes a virus that's like
the hotel California. It can check in
but it can't really get out except for
um the degraded capsids. Um and then we
put the gene therapy into the patient.
It goes to the neuron. It goes in the
neuron. the capsid sort of falls apart
and gets excreted and the gene remains
in the neuron making the protein that's
desired if everything goes perfectly
according to plan. Um so MVX220
is you know what Jim just described.
It's an investigational gene therapy um
replace a gene replacement therapy using
the AAV hue 68 vector um which is
optimized for this particular gene
therapy. um it expresses a codon
optimized human ub3A gene under control
of a human synapsin promoter and
synapsin is a protein that's expressed
by neurons. So that just guarantees that
the gene will get expressed in neurons.
um it's delivered into the CSF for
direct CNS delivery into the magna and
this is done under CT guidance very
carefully with general anesthesia after
a person goes and does the training that
Jim just described at at um UPEN and so
the picture shows you you know we're
have the gene in the virus we give it to
the patient and then theoretically UB3A
gets expressed in the brain
um so the total dose in this particular
study is based on body weight. Many of
the gene therapy studies just use one
empiric dose. Um but it's but we're
estimating the brain weight based on an
MRI scan. And this total dose is going
to be lower than what you would have to
give if you gave the gene therapy IV. I
think Gene Jim showed you really well if
you give it IV, you have to give a lot
more. And that's associated with more
toxicity. you base the dose on body
weight and it's just not the optimal way
to right now to give something to the
central nervous system at least to give
AAV to the central nervous system. Um so
the trial is the first in human trial
for Angelman syndrome with gene therapy.
It's um including adult and pediatric
patients. We're going to deliver it into
the Cernna Magna. It's open label. That
means that everybody is getting the
product. We're not going to do a placebo
with all of the kind of procedure we
have to do. And then the outcome
measures are the outcome measures that
we're using in the ASO trials. They're
come from all the learnings from ABOM
and from the natural history study and
they're based on the domains that were
identified in the um PFDD with FDA that
of things that are important to people
with Angelman syndrome. Um the primary
objective is to evaluate the safety and
tolerability as every first trial that
the primary objective is always to make
sure things are safe um in Angelmen
patients and the key secondary
objectives are to measure the levels of
MBX 220 in blood and CSF as well as to
evaluate the efficacy with all of these
clinical outcome measures that we're
going to use.
Um the study design basically there's
cohort one which is the adults. Um, so
these participants are going to be dosed
sequentially. In other words, we give a
dose and then we wait several months and
we have safety followup and then that's
reviewed by a committee that decides,
yes, everything went okay. Now you can
dose the next patient. And that's really
important because if you do a lot of
patients at once and then there was a
horrible safety event, you would be
doing something horrible to multiple
patients instead of just one. This is
generally how gene therapies are done.
If all three of the adult patients are
safe, then there'll be a review and we
can start dosing the pediatric patients
which will be four to eight years of
age. Um the participants again are dosed
sequentially and there's a safety review
and a and a independent safety
monitoring committee review between each
patient's dosing. Um then there's an
optional cohort where we could add three
more patients um within the total age
range of four to 50.
Um, so what kinds of outcome measures
are we going to use? We're going to use
the same things that people have been
exposed to in the um in the ASO trials
for communication. We've got the ORCA.
You've heard a lot about the Orca. It's
measuring communication in individuals
with the type of communication
impairments that people with Angelman
syndrome have. Um, and then we're using
standardized measures like the Vineland
and the Bailey. Um, which we have a lot
of natural history data on and the ASA
which is a clinician global impression.
Um, we're measuring cognition with the
Bailey. Um, we're measuring daily life
skills with the Vineland and the um, and
the CGI. We're measuring sleep with a
sleep diary and the CGI. We're measuring
gross motor with the Bailey and the
Vineland. And we have a side device that
we can look at how the patient walks. Um
and then behavior with behavior scales,
fine motor again with the Bailey and
Vineland um and the CGI. And then we
have a QI disability scale that looks at
what your quality of life is after the
gene therapy is administered and what
the patient's quality of life is. Um and
then we have a quite a number of
biomarkers based on EEG um CSF levels of
in in in both levels in both blood and
body fluids as well as MRI scans.
Um the key eligibility criteria um are
um 18 to 50 years right now for the
adult cohort and then eventually um two
to eight years. Um you can have UPD or
ICD. Patients with mutations have been
excluded because they're this is a small
study and they're much more variable. Um
the ability to ambulate independently is
required so that we can assess nerve
function in the lower legs after we give
um after we give the therapy. Um stable
your your seizure drugs have to be
stable and then you have to be on a
stable diet i.e like the ketogenic or
LGIT diet. Um exclusion is other
clinically important medical challenges,
laboratory ab abnormalities that would
preclude you from participating in a
gene therapy trial. Um serious
infections. You can't have an infection
within the six weeks prior to giving
gene therapy. You can't have
immunizations right before a gene
therapy because those activate the
immune system and we don't want to
activate the immune system. Um history
of autoimmune diseases. Um treatment
with an ASO. you can be treated with
this ASO, but your last treatment has to
be over a year ago. Um, and if you can't
meet the MRI or the dosing requirements,
or if it would be unsafe to give you
steroids, which we have to use to
suppress the immune system, then um,
then we would have to exclude the
patient.
Um, so here's the study design. The
patients come in, they do a whole bunch
of tests. Um, just like with every other
study, we determine are you meeting all
the eligibility criteria. Then we have a
dosing day where you come in and get
dosing and um then post-dosing it's very
intensive because we are monitoring to
make sure that you do not the patient
does not have any kind of hyperimmune
response which is the biggest one of the
biggest dangers of of giving AAV based
gene therapy. We don't think that's
likely in this case because the doses
we're using are not as high as the doses
that have caused problems like that. But
we have to monitor it very closely. So,
you're admitted to the hospital days one
to three after the therapy. Um, we do
labs every day the first seven days. We
check you. We do exams. We make sure
your liver isn't changing size. You
know, all of these things have to be
monitored very closely because the
biggest risk is obviously right after
the gene delivery. And then after we get
past the risk phase, we have assessments
that patients come in regularly to
monitor safety and um eventually, you
know, over the long term to monitor
efficacy and what is the patient doing
and are they doing new things that they
hadn't done before. Um and that's really
the big question is how well will this
work in people?
Um so there are specific risks. Um all
gene therapies carry risks um and both
of both for both short and long-term
effects. Um and so we like to have the
families understand these risks. Um
different viral carrier or different
virus carriers have different kinds of
risks and different doses have maybe um
different kinds of risks. So um we're
going to be looking very carefully at
problems from the ICM procedure itself.
Patients are monitored very carefully in
anesthesia. They have to have a tube put
in to breathe for them because we're
going to put their head down and we're
going to flex the neck so that we can
get to where we need to get to put the
gene therapy. So careful anesthesia
monitoring. The procedure is only done
by people who have been trained on the
procedure. I personally was able to
experience the training at UPEN. Um and
you really get to try doing the
procedure on cadaavvers and have all
your questions answered. And then for
the first procedure at your site, Dr.
actually comes and make sure everything
goes okay. So, this was the process that
we did to try to make things absolutely
safe and we had the CT imaging going on
the whole time that we were doing the
the procedure to make sure the needle
was in exactly the right place. Um, we
use steroids to suppress the immune
system and there can be side effects
from that. Why do we use the steroids?
Because we don't want the immune system
to actually attack the virus and destroy
all of our gene therapy. So we have to
try to get the immune system kind of
pushed, you know, kind of dampened down.
And so we're using steroids to do that.
But there obviously are side effects of
steroids that patients can have like
getting infections, but also like
increasing reflux and various other
sleep problems, increased appetite, but
this is transient. So um we we just
manage it symptomatically as as as you
know as we use the steroids. um immune
responses in the organs or in the blood
cells. We have to we we we eliminate
patients who have problems with um who
have immunological challenges and we
have careful monitoring throughout the
study of all of these parameters. Blood
tests that reflect the heart, the
kidney, um your immune system. Um and
then the the steroids help, but then we
can also extend the steroid use if we
have a problem with an immune reaction.
um liver toxicity. We watch very closely
for that. We just watch labs for that.
And then you can get a the virus can go
into the sensory nerves, the dorsal root
ganglia, which is in the back of the
spinal cord and controls um your sensory
nerves. And so we carefully monitor for
that as well. Um most of that is
reversible, but we um but but we have to
watch it closely. Um so um the then then
there's the uncertainty of you know of
for instance how long how well will the
the well will the gene therapy work and
over what time will it work? Will we see
gradual building over five years or will
we see a bump and then not much other
change? How much will change? And that's
a question that we are going to answer
through these studies. We have no way of
answering that question perfectly for
humans with an animal model.
Um so this is just the first patient was
treated. Um and so that red arrow is
pointing to the sternum magna on the MRI
scan of the patient. What what we like
to see is a nice triangular space there
where we can get the needle in but not
hit anything else. And we map very
closely where the blood vessels are
because we don't want to hit a blood
vessel back there. That's not good. Um
and then the middle picture is me
administering the gene therapy. And um
you can see from the um from the picture
on the far right, oh no, the picture on
the left that um the need the little
sticky kind of thing you see pointing in
there is the needle and it's sitting
right there in the magna where we want
to give the gene therapy. So that's a
little view of what it looks like. Um
there are currently two sites open,
Russia and UPEN. Um, UPUPEN was not yet
yet recruiting the last I heard, but
they're posted on clinical trials.gov,
but they're they're looking at patients
and they'll be up and running soon. Um,
and so in conclusion, MBX220 was solely
funded through the efforts of FAST in
collaboration with Jim at Penn from
proof of concept through IND enabling
studies. Fast works with ABOM to try to
develop the regulatory framework and
clinically meaningful endpoints that we
can use that the FDA will buy into um in
in trials. Um MVX AAV1 is the first
clinical trial for a single treatment
gene replacement for Angelman syndrome.
The first patient has been treated and
is thus far doing well. The study is
underway. Um a clinical trial
application for MVX220 was approved by
Health Canada. So, we will be
potentially recruiting patients in
Canada for the pediatric cohort. And
again, you can go to clinicaltrials.gov
and see the sites that are running the
trial at any given time that are open to
do the trial. Um, and I want to thank
the Rush team. Back there somewhere is
Milana and Allison who's our regulatory
coordinator who got this whole thing in
record speed through the IBC, the
biologicals committee, and the IRB. um
Milana who did everything for the trial
and really helped make this happen and
Melissa who managed our budget and
contracts people and got this going so
that we could be open and you know have
have a patient dosed by this meeting. Um
and then we have a variety of other
people that work on the trial, our
coordinators, our medical people. Um and
then this does not happen without
basically a village. So you have the
rush pharmacy, anesthesia,
neuroraiology, the pediatrics ICU where
the patient goes after the procedure.
And we all really worked in concert, you
know, to make this happen. And then
Brian, he came in, he he did the
training. He came in, he helped us out
through our first one because this
procedure had never been done at Rush
before. So, um, we had him there to make
sure everything went smoothly, helped
train our neuroraiologists.
Um, and so that was great. And then our
brave patient and family. I it what is
it like to be the first person that does
this? They they are the pioneer
and then all the different participants
in making this process happen as well as
Sophia Loose who is my second grandchild
that fortunately decided to come out
three weeks early so that I could be
there for her delivery rather than being
at this meeting during her delivery.
Um, so all of that and then we thank the
community for supporting all of the work
that leads up to this. And so that's all
I'm going to say. I think we're over
time.