Our next speaker um is Dr. Andrew uh
Seinapper who's coming to us to speak
about novel a novel path to the brain
crossing the bloodb brain barrier for
gene therapy. As Dr. Wilson alluded to,
you know, we don't stop. So it's
important as we advance genetic
medicines for Angelmen syndrome. We
don't just stop and say, well, this is
it. If this doesn't work, nothing else
will. We have to ensure that we have
options coming behind. For every version
one, there's a version two. and for
every version two there's a version
three. And as we think about that and we
think about the the transformation of
science, we have to keep up with the
science. And this is something that
still is in somewhat early stages. We
don't have evidence or data really in
humans as it relates to these new type
of capsids, but it is what's upcoming
and we are going to see over the coming
years a lot of new activity in this
space. And so I invited Andrew to come
and speak to us about the incredible
work that him and his team have been
doing at Apertura, who have been a a
really great team engaging and embracing
rare disease parents and families and
organizations to ensure that all
advocacy groups have access. They have
access to new technology and money and
time and availability does not become
their barrier. And so Andrew has really
been quite impressive as it relates to
his communication and engagement with
communities, particularly this one. So
Andrew, please.
>> Thank you so much, Allison, and it's um
truly an honor to get to be here and
especially following a very tough set of
acts. Um as Allison noted, my name is
Andrew Steinapper. Um I help lead
Apertura gene therapy. Um, I have a day
job. I work at a company called
Deerfield Management. We do healthcare
investing. Um, our motto is advancing
health care. And I've always tried to
add the kod on to that of sometimes one
patient at a time. What we did is help
start a company called Apertura Gene
Therapy. And we said, we know the
problems because the leaders in the
field have been calling them out for
years. We need to understand how to
build tools, in this case AEV, that will
work, that can move forward and make
life easier for what we're doing. And
what we wanted to do is start with that
end in mind. Not the first patient that
gets a drug, but rather the thousandth
patient in commercial that gets that
drug because it's already been approved.
So what we did was we said we want to
use the science that we understand, what
we've learned in antibodies, what we've
learned in other drugs and start with
the receptors, the things that we
target, the things that help us get to
where we're going and leverage those. We
are standing on the shoulders of giants
including our scientific founder Ben
Deman who has started all this work and
is the reason why we've moved this
forward not just on the science but also
in the purpose of making sure that
everyone has access to what we have
because we alone cannot do everything.
It is only when we are together that we
are the smartest and the most capable.
So with that and I think we we had some
explanations of what AEV is and I was
told very specifically by Allison that
the people in this audience know more
about science than I ever will but
nonetheless I will make sure to have
this. I've always thought about AAV as
helping give a software update. As it
was noted earlier we we have viral genes
that we can take out. That's the stuff
on the left. And instead what we put in
is on the right. It's that new set of
instructions and AAV is really good at
going into cells and dropping off those
instructions so that they can be read.
Those instructions could be things like
how to make UB3A. They could be
instructions like how to do gene editing
or other things. And because we're able
to drop it off and it can hang out and
be in the cell, we don't have to keep
redossing this. Now, with that, we have
all of these opportunities that we can
address. The question is, why aren't we
already doing it? Part of the reason why
we're not doing is the things noted by
Jim and by Liz in the complexity of
moving these forward because certain
AAVs are better at different things. And
frankly, AAV that exists in nature,
which has been around for billions of
years and has never caused disease,
isn't really meant for gene therapy.
It's meant to be what it is.
Nonetheless, we've been able to find
through so much work and energy and time
which ones of these naturally occurring
AAVs can be used to get to certain
tissues, be those the central nervous
system or the liver or the eye or the
muscle. But really what we have been
doing is working with research tools and
trying to find the right ones that maybe
meet our needs. And with that, we need
that progress. It's important that we
continue that work and move it forward.
That's why there are drugs that are
approved. That's why there are more than
4,500 babies that have received Zulenma
for SMA1.
These things have changed the world and
they will continue to do so. What we're
hoping to do is help expand that
opportunity by building new capsids with
new capabilities that can help across
more diseases and make it easier to
administer those products and be able to
do it at lower doses for all of the
reasons that folks were talking about
earlier. And in a lot of ways, I think
that we've gotten there, at least in our
early research. The work that I'm
showing to you right now is a mouse
brain on the left in blue. And then on
the right is another mouse brain, but
one that received our first generation
capsid that uses the human transferin
receptor to cross the bloodb brain
barrier. I'll be telling you more about
that later, but the thing I want you to
see here is all those little green dots,
all those little green dots are software
updates. Those are cells that received
that virus. And if I had the other
slides that I had in here, but I have a
limit on the amount of time I have, I
would turn off the blue and you would
see just a green brain on that side. And
the reason that we're able to do that is
because we're using biology the way that
it was meant for. We're leveraging a
receptor called the transferin receptor.
The transferin receptor is named that
way because scientists are not creative.
The transferin receptor binds to
transferin, hence its name. What the
transferin receptor does normally is
help the body by grabbing on to
transferin which holds onto iron and
move it across the bloodb brain barrier.
Iron on its own hanging out would be
actually toxic. So our bodies put it
into this protein to help protect us.
Now that protein unfortunately is too
big to get in the brain and that's where
we actually need a lot of iron to make
energy. The same way that people say
that if you do a cross word puzzle you
don't have to run a mile because you're
burning a lot of calories. Although
jokes aside, I know doctors I still
should be running a mile. We need to get
it in there. So, we're leveraging the
same receptor that's normal job is to
help be a ferry to bring things across
to bring our virus across. And in fact,
this receptor has been used across
hundreds of patients, both pediatric
patients as well as geriatric patients
to help move other biomolecules across.
You heard Dr. Wilson talk about Hunter
syndrome a minute ago. There is a drug
that is approved that uses the human
transferin receptor to bring across the
medicine for Hunter syndrome for folks.
And that drug is approved in Japan. And
there are other things that are moving
forward from both JCR, Denali, and RO in
the US to do the same thing. Now, all of
those are doing biologics, those like an
enzyme. What we're doing instead is
saying we're going to use our virus to
do that because it also uses the same
receptor.
Now, with that, we think that that means
that we have an opportunity to help
across a number of disorders. And of
course, Angelman is on there, but it's
more than just that. It's all of these
diseases that we haven't heard of yet.
The ones that have five letters and two
numbers that maybe three people in
academia are researching. We think that
we have an opportunity to make sure that
those folks have access to this too and
that they can build upon this platform
like Jim was noting and being able to
consistently be able to move forward
because we're using the same tools to do
the same job over and over again.
For our work, we are progressing
actively with multiple rare disease
groups. We have one program that should
be in human trials at the end of 2026.
We have another that should be in human
clinical trials at the beginning of
2027. That's exciting. And honestly,
talking to all the folks in that
community and others, I know it's never
going to be fast enough. But the reason
it's taken this amount of time is
because we're making sure that we're
running the right experiments at the
right time in the right order that we
are not cutting corners but moving
forward correctly with that. And even
though we have oodles of safety data in
engaging with the human transparent
receptor for other drugs, it's never
been done with a virus, which is why
it's been important that we've executed
critical studies in non-human primates
and in mice to help understand how this
medicine can work. We're excited for
this to move forward. And it's really a
great pleasure for for me and a
privilege to say that our first
partnership was not with a a
therapeutics company, but rather with
the Rhett Syndrome Research Trust, an
organization like FAST that's devoted to
working for their patient advocacy
community to progress things. We've also
been able to work with a number of other
groups. And our goal is to actually make
sure that this is available across the
board for folks in academia developing
products as well as people in companies
and rare advocacy groups. And with that,
it wouldn't be a science talk if I
didn't show you data. You saw brains
earlier and this is the part that I'm
most excited about outside of answering
your questions after this because we
have a poster. But we are able to use
dose levels here that are 5050 times
lower than what are used in the
currently approved therapies for
introvenous administration. And even
when at that super duper low dose level
we're reaching almost all of the cells
in the brain. What you see here is AV9
which doesn't work really IV very
efficiently in adult mice. Then you see
a capsid that only works in mice which
it's not going to do anything for
people. And then you see our caps at
TFR1 capex that uses that human
transparent receptor to cross that
bloodb brain barrier. And to that point
of looking at other tissues and how that
virus goes to different places, the
thing that's so exciting for us and that
you can see here in that pink magenta is
that at these doses we're getting about
the same amount of virus into the brain
into the CNS as we are getting into the
liver bringing it into par rather than
what we've seen with other standard
capsids in this first generation of
technologies where that ratio is 100 to
one or a thousand to one. What that
means as we think about this is that not
only are we able to address this with a
much lower dose, but the places that
we're going are closer to where we want
them to be for both neurological
disorders and neuromabolic disorders.
What we've done here is not just to say
we're going to build a tool and then not
use it. We've also been progressing
internal programs. We've been
collaborating with others and we
recognize that it is not just up to us
to move these things forward. The first
thing that we want to do in every case
is to sit down with the patient advocacy
communities and understand what the
needs are because the stakeholders in
the room are the people that are going
to actually use those drugs. And that's
why it's important that it's everyone in
here that feels comfortable with the
data that is generated because it's not
just what the FDA says okay to. It's not
just what the doctors say okay to. It's
also understanding these things. And
it's wonderful to see such great
presentations explaining everything like
you saw earlier so that everyone
understands what's moving forward.
Nonetheless, with that in our programs
that we've been moving forward for TSC,
another uh genetic disorder as well as
for pryion disease with sonia valib, we
have already got an alignment on those
programs with the FDA for what our path
forward is. And that's a path forward
where we can use these mice that have
the human transferin receptor knocked
into them and use them as the direct
model for human dosing because it has
the exact same receptor and that drug
interacts exactly in the same way and
helps it has predictable dose levels
across the board. With that, we've also
been able to help make sure that the
data that already exists, the research
that's already been done doesn't need to
be done over again and instead we can
continue to leverage those data as folks
transition over to this capsit. So all
of that time, effort, and labor isn't
wasted, but rather something that can be
built upon to move forward to second
generation products for [snorts]
patients and communities. And we've made
sure to put out our uh blueprints and
road maps in public forums like this one
so that these slides are all available
without confidentiality and without
needing to have an agreement. So that
not just patient advocacy groups and
parents trying to progress programs, but
also academics out there that want to be
helping and want to be moving forward,
but don't have the years and decades of
experience, someone like Jim on how to
progress a program can get that
explainer guide and so that we can be
there to help them think through that.
as I thank you. Um, with that like I
think it's important to note as we
progress through programs that there are
going to be challenges and setbacks and
it's important to us as we do this that
we are continuously transparent and we
share those data and help make sure that
everyone has access because it is only
through all of us learning together that
we're able to progress this many
programs. I have to have a huge thank
you to Allison, the team for this
opportunity and also Allison realizing
these are my old slides where I had like
27 slides and you said you wouldn't I
wouldn't be able to get through them in
time. So, um I don't want to go through
all those and and blow up your time
frame, but I I do want to just end on
our thank you slide rather than talking
through Pryion, which is really exciting
and come talk to me afterwards. But
truly, the thing that we're here for is
to try to make sure there's not just a
next generation of gene therapy, but of
collaboration across the board in the
rare disease space. One of my mentors
said to me, "It's not which disease I
want to work on, it's the question of
why not that one too." And I look
forward to the day where more people are
sharing that. And we are going to do
everything we can in our power to make
sure that this technology is available
to foundations like FAST and many
others. Thank you so much.
[applause]
>> Thank you, Andrew. Thank you, Andrew.
That was great. And I think everyone can
see as we move things forward, the
technology is changing. And you know,
we're very excited. We're going to hang
on tight to see that first patient
that's dosed hopefully in 2026 and how
that can impact rare disease in general,
particularly neurologic disorders.