So, our next speaker is Dr. Raph Benjam
um coming to us from Arbor
Biotechnologies. I'm so happy that you
guys are here presenting today on this
stage. Just for the record, I've been
talking to Arbor for a long time. Um but
I have never been able to disclose that
I'm talking to Arbor for a long time.
And the fact that they agreed to speak
to our families about their Angelman
program to disclose out of stealth that
they're working on Angelmen syndrome is
really exciting. And it's early days,
but we're super thrilled and we're so
great grateful to be able to support
you.
>> Good morning. Thank you Allison for the
introduction and uh it is truly an honor
to be standing in front of you today. My
name is Rafael Benjam. I'm here on
behalf of Arbor Bio and I'm going to be
talking to you today about uh novel gene
editing approaches for the potential
treatment of Angelman syndrome. Let me
see if this works. These are my
disclosures.
So I'll take a few seconds to briefly
tell you about Arbor Bio. Arbor is a
clinical stage company whose therapies
um leverage the potential of crisper
gene editing. Um, Arbor has several
pipelines in progress, including one
liver indication for PH1, currently in
phase one clinical trials, as well as
several CNS pipelines at different
stages of pre-clinical development. And
more recently, as Allison mentioned, um,
Arbor's gene editing technology combined
with our expertise in AEV delivery for
CNS disorders is now being applied to
the potential treatment of Angelmen
syndrome.
So, Arbor employs um about a little more
than 10 unique gene editors including uh
type five nucleaces and I'll tell you a
little bit about that in a second. But
before I do, I wanted to take a second
to briefly refresh your memory on the
component of crisper and you've heard
about crisper many points uh during the
past three days. And I'll just be quick
and tell you that um crisper gene
editing allows for the precise
modification or disruption of a
particular gene of interest. And it does
so by using two main components. The
first is the cast protein which is this
red kidney bean shape here on the
diagram. And the cast protein serves as
a molecular scissor to disrupt the the
gene of interest. And it does so thanks
to the guide um by by the gRNA or guide
RNA which will bring the CAS protein to
to the gene of interest. And you should
also know that there are at least six
major types of crisper gene editors. And
I'll talk about two specifically today.
Type two nucleases are the most
well-known and cast 9 and is an example
of type two nucleases. You've heard
about cast 9 many times during the past
three days. Cast 9 is widely used in
clinical trials and is even FDA approved
for the treatment of cickle cell
disease. In uh contrast, type five
nucleases
um are less wellknown but are
particularly well suited for use in
therapeutics for the following two
reasons. The first is that on average
there are smaller than type two
nucleases and their guide RNAs are
smaller as well which makes packaging
type five nucleuses into AVs easier. And
the second reason is they have a
different type of cut compared to type
two nucleases. Um, type five nucleaces
will perform a staggered cut shown here
which will typically lead toward larger
deletion which is particularly
advantageous when disrupting the UB3A
ATS.
And so it is no surprise to hear that
Arbor's AS pipeline will um target the
will aim to disrupt the UB3A ATS um in
an attempt to unsilent dad's gene or as
is commonly known as fast circles as
pillar 2.
And to delve into um our therapeutic
approach a little deeper, Arbur's gene
editor is intended to be packaged into
an AEV and intended for a one-time
administration and the potential there
is for durable unsilencing of paternal
UB3A.
The clinical benefits of this approach
have been demonstrated by ASOS currently
in clinical trials and you'll hear about
those updates um later today. And
finally, arbor's small nucleus leaves
room for incorporation of different
safety features, potential safety
features to prevent sustained nucleus
expression.
And so I'll now walk you through the
different stages of our preclinical in
vitro developments starting with our
high throughput screening. Now a
targeted region within the UB3A ATS
locus spans around 50,000 bases which is
quite large and we therefore had to
screen many guides around 300 first in
an immortalized cell line to first
filter out guides with poor activity.
The guides that made it through were
validated in IPS derived human cortical
neurons derived from Angelmen patient
and with those we were able to rank the
guides based on their ability to um
recover UB3A protein expression.
The top candidates were then optimized
and we were able to improve their
potency by up to 14 folds. And we were
able to demonstrate that our top
candidates can recover an invitro
phenotype
um and reverse hyperexitability
um in Angelmen neurons in vitro. And
I'll now uh briefly highlight some key
data sets to uh show you the the
progress that we've made since the
assumption of this project. So what
you're seeing here is a graph that
illustrates the UB3A protein expression
recovery of an Angelman neuron following
the treatment with our top um nucleus
and guide combinations. The bar in red
is showing UB3A expression of a
neurotypical control and the average of
that expression is shown by the top
dotted line.
The expression of UB3A in an angelman
neuron untreated Angelman neuron is
shown in gray and the average of that
expression is shown by the bottom dotted
line.
In green are 14 candidates uh 14
candidates spanning two different
nucleases and several guides and they
show different varying levels of UB3
protein recovery. In orange are two
guides that are able to reach levels
similar to those of neurotypical
control. In blue are seven more guides
that are close to reaching neurotypical
control, but more importantly that are
able to reach levels similar to a
researchgrade ASO uh designed and
published by the Dindo lab that we have
been using as a benchmark in these
assays.
And now that we were able to show
robustly that we can recover UB through
protein expression angelman neurons, our
next question was do those top
candidates are they able to reverse an
invitro phenotype? And in the literature
there are reports that Angeloman neurons
exhibit elevated excitability
and this has been shown in both IPS
derived neurons in vitro as well as the
Angelmen neuron models in vivo.
And so we chose to use a machine called
the MEA or multi-elerode array. And this
machine allows us to quantify a neuron's
electrical activity in the dish. And
more specifically, it allows us to
compare the excitability of an Angelman
neuron compared to a neurot neurotypical
neuron and ultimately allows us to
prioritize guides based on their ability
to reduce hyperexitability in vitro.
So I'll walk you through the data. The
graph on the left here shows a measure
of synchrony. Um the higher the number,
the higher the synchrony. And you should
know that a hypoexitable neuron, one of
the hallmarks is an elevated synchrony.
And we see that data reflected here. An
angelman neuron in red is showing
elevated synchrony compared to two
neurotypical lines in blue. And so after
treatment with our top candidates, we
are able to reduce the synchrony of the
angel minuron once again in red down to
neuro to neurotypical range. And you see
that with two guides in light and dark
green. And the quantification of that is
shown in the graph on the right um with
area under the curve acting as a proxy
for uh synchrony. The lower the number,
the lower the synchrony. And we see that
our guys are able to reduce that
synchrony of Angelmen neurons down to
neurotypical levels. And more
interestingly, we saw a high correlation
of the percentage of reduction of
hypersynchrony and the percentage of UBA
UB3A protein recovery with those same
guides.
So I'll quickly summarize what I've just
told you. Arbur's gene editor um is are
intended to be packaged in an AEV and
intended for one-time administration and
the potential there is for durable
unsilencing of paternal UB3A. Our top
gene editors and guide RNA candidates
are able to recover UB3A protein level
in Angelmen neurons to neurotypical
level. We've shown that we can develop a
novel in vitro um assay on the MEA and
replicate a previously reported
phenotype of hyperexitability
and our top candidates can reverse the
hyperexitability phenotype to
neurotypical range. And so I'll end my
talk by thanking you thinking fast the
organizers for the invitation to speak
today. Thank you to Allison for being um
a thought partner, as she said earlier
in the talk, a thought partner from the
beginning of this project. And of
course, thank you to the Angelment
community. Um this community is one of a
kind. I'm sure you know this. And your
um continued attendance at this meeting
and your continued advocacy and support
of drug development efforts for your
loved ones living with AS is inspiring.
So, thank you for your support and thank
you for your attention today.
Awesome.
So for anybody who didn't understand
that because that was beautiful science.
Basically various different guides that
target different parts of the anticense
had different benefit showing that you
can knock down the antisense upreculate
the protein and rescue what is almost
like a seizure phenotype or the cells
that are that are excitable the neurons
that are excitable. You can actually
rescue that to bring it to more
neurotypical or or normal levels in
neurons. And so you can see that
sequence matters, location of where
you're targeting matters. And to be able
to find the best um the best solution
and the best candidate, you want to be
able to address that in the greatest way
with expressing the most amount of UB3A
and rescuing a behavior like seizure
activity in a neuron. So that's really
exciting work and I really look forward
to seeing that go forward in vivo.