So our next presentation is a trio and
I'm very very proud to be part of that
trio. Um this is Yang Wei Jiang who does
not need an introduction and Jang Bing
Xu who actually also I think after four
years now or three years also doesn't
need an introduction. This is an amazing
team at Yale um who Jennifer and I have
been lucky enough to be able to work
with over the past couple of years as we
advance this program which is one of the
most exciting novel cutting edge
programs that I've been lucky enough to
be a part of. And what we want to share
with you all today is where we are.
We've been working on this diligently
and it's been really really complicated.
And as we're starting to see more and
more success and really moving the
needle on bringing us closer and closer
to a possible future clinical trial, we
wanted to share that data with you. Um,
so I'm here representing myself and
Jennifer. Um, but Young Way and Jung
Bing are going to talk to you about the
technology and what we know in the
animal model and then I'm going to share
with you how we've taken that from the
mouse model and what we're doing to try
to move that to humans. Yay. Chambi
you can start
>> thanks Alison for the introduction and
good morning everyone uh for those who
don't know me I'm a engineer on the team
so my responsibility is to uh without
disclosure so so my responsibility is
should I go through this slide up
>> I think you You want me to do it?
>> He knows this slide, but I'm happy to do
it. So, really the goal of this project
and I think why this project got funded
and got incredible support from the NIH
is because we really created this
benchside to bedside model to go from
discovery and preclinical work at Yale
to clinical trials at Yale and Rush. And
we were able to kind of put all the
pieces together in this development
program all through the support of our
community who developed this entire
ecosystem of benchside to bedside. And
because of that ability to be able to
truly translate drugs to humans, the NIH
believed in us and got us to this
program um and and funded this program.
And so we've been able to really support
that over time. So we'll we'll start
with the pre-clinical program and then
we'll move to the the toxicology program
and then hopefully the future for
clinical trials. Now you can go.
>> Okay. So as I just mentioned uh I'm a
engineer on the team. So my
responsibility is to create a carrier to
deliver our superic payloads to right
location. So this case is the neuron
cells in the bra. So our payload is a
genome editor called crisper which
mentioned discussed by the last
presenter already. So uh crisper
actually originate originate from
bacteria is a hallmark of bacteria
defense system. So believe or not bacter
bacteria like a human beings could be
infected by virus. So you know through
evolution this bacteria you know derived
mechanism called crisus which can cut
the virus genome. So that that case they
can kill virus. So over a decade ago you
know I was scientists in the field
figure out a mechanism how to hijack the
mechanism for human use. So you know uh
so the magnet actually sorry
I show here uh has a you know two two
component system including cars is
basically the working machinery so like
in like a cus here for example cutting
the virus genome there's a ga so
basically the code to tell the machinery
to the right location
so but you know for principally the
major challenge is how to deliver you
know uh we as we discussed uh yesterday
and today in the gene delivery field
there's mainly two vectors available uh
one is a virus AAV uh we talk about AV a
lot this morning already so another is a
nanop particles
so you know uh so I will talk about how
you know we how I as an engineer you
know to to really uh uh solve this
delivery issue so this uh this slide so
basically shows that you know how of
scientists have been engineer crisper
for human use. So in addition to the
original formulation which can use for
genomic cutting to remove the you know
uh target gene. So this the machinery
has been engineered for other use for
example for gene correction or epigenome
editing. Basically we can repair
whatever defect you know in human genes
like EB3A we can correct mutations we
even can repair the the deletion.
So I mention delivery is a major issue
right? So there's the two uh major
delivery carriers in the field you know
including AEVs and which is most often
used at this moment and another is a
nanop particles. So unfortunately AV and
may not be the best vehicle for deliver
genomicus you know as mentioned right
this is a crisper derived from bacteria
and is active you know machinery which
can potentially cut your gum or or
modify your gum. So in this case you
know you can imagine if we deliver
crisper editors use a so this
editor will be expressed bacteria do and
the editor will be expressed in in human
cells for a long time probably over over
a decade. So you can imagine right could
mess up our genome in addition to the
imu reaction. So you know other than
virus nanop particles could be choice
you know particularly lipid nanop
particles but unfortunately lithium
nanop particles may not be best for for
neural use particularly this case you
know for ang syndrome because you know
it's very difficult to deliver or n
other nanop particles to the brain and
through introvenous administration
particle need to cross blood vessel and
get into the brain but the vessel in the
brain is very different from vessels in
other organs you You know they form a
mechanism called bloodb brain barrier
which have been mentioned by previous uh
speakers already. So most particles
could not cross the BBB valve but even
in the local administration or deliver
number puncture right just like iso
delivery you know the particles could
not be disposed in the brain well you
know could be simply because they're too
large most nanop particles probably over
60 you know couple hundred nanometer but
you know the the free space in the brain
tissue actually is very small probably
less than 30 nanometer so
To overcome this issue you know uh we
develop a new approach we call step
engineering approach. So you know uh so
step we present a group of chemicals is
a small chemical is about 2 kiloton very
small. So those chemicals are designed
to you know with two arms you know the
one arm you know intact with payloads in
this case genomatus. So another arm you
know is designed to intact with specific
cell type or organs. So you know in this
case you know uh for genomatic editors
we can just you know conjugate them
together and then the sum molecules you
know you can believe a lot you know work
you know work so well with integr
payload so well you know you only need
to put two 10 to 20 those small
chemicals you know with our pro uh
genomeic payload you know in this case
so this chemicals can bring this you
know super you know payloads into cells
and release Um
so the beauty of this approach is that
you know step engineered you know genome
edits you know the protein based editors
called RMP
you know are very small is about 10
nanometer you know is perfect for brain
penetration in terminal size so you know
compared to others right nanop particles
probably you know over 100 nanometer so
of course I would like to mention that
you know step is a concept so we
actually have synthesized a large label
st chemicals and different chemicals
They have different properties. You
know, for example, some chemicals like
neuron cells they kind of know after you
know injection they preventually add the
neuron cells. Some like eststerides and
some probably like other organs. But of
course for syndrome we you know our
target is the neuron cells in the brain.
So you know so in this case we choose a
specific step molecule which you know
can edit the neuron cells very well.
Just you know give example here. This is
a testing this you know step RMPS in
patient derived neuron is a 2D neuron
grow on flask flask basically what we
found is that you know single image
treatment can edit the most you know
over 90% of neuron cells in the dish so
the the also very high in 3D neurons so
organoid is a sphere culture you know in
3D fluid 3D form fluid so basically we
found that once single treatment really
addit most cells within silver
organoids. So you know efficiency could
be up to you know 90%. So and over the
past few years we have been you know
synthesize you know steps and then work
together with John's lab to characterize
you know submp forment treatment in
preclinical studies. So okay.
So um when I relocated from Duke to Yale
end of 2019 then I met Jen Bing roughly
middle of the co 2021. So we kind of
learn he has this technology. So my lab
work a pan of a disease. So say okay
maybe this is a great potential to to
pick a disease genetic disease and to
develop a treatment. I mean as you
probably know uh the first choice is and
syndrome that's my favorite dear to my
heart. So I I don't think I need to go
on to this slide too much detail. So the
idea is this step technology same as
anti-sense oliggo you can inactivate
anti-sense. The difference from
anti-sense algo is you need to repeat
multiple times keep going for step
technology is a crisp editing if work by
design it's only one time permanent
inactivated anti- sense that's it so
that's the building um so just shows you
the concept has been showed by ASL
ATF and top summer small molecu
and cast 9 in use a V vector um and also
cast RNA in activation. So it's
basically again this is you are very
familiar with and the paternal com
anti-sense is very long if you can
inactivate it transient or permanently
then you can reactivate a gene for
maternal chromosome we use a delion as a
case but presumably this technology
should be applied to all other different
genotype
um so this is a slide um when shaalu was
a post at that time now she's a research
scientist
shows me particular on the
right side of that particular western
blood. It's a protein analysis. When she
showed me this blood, I immediately got
quite excited and convinced. I told her
I said we got a program. This is a
walking working beautifully. So just
shows you that you can see there's no
treatment red is no very minimum protein
with three sample um treated and from
the mouse brain it shows a beautiful
reactivation very clean.
So on and the same thing we validated we
have she has done like almost more than
20 cohort several hundred miles
validated all the funding pretty
efficiently
and one of the beauty for the step
versus the other deliver technology AV
we deliver the cast 9 protein as Jamian
alluded to this protein goes into the
invivo in we do the intraigal injection
which shows you Here that green signal
you can see after day one injection 1
hour, 3 hour, 6 hour, 12 hour by 12 hour
but 24 hours is almost you cannot detect
any cast protein as you probably all
quite familiar with when talk about
crisp editing. We want to fix the
genetic mistake here is inactivated. You
also want to make sure
this editing not go to the other part of
the genome create another genetic
condition. But with this technology so
short transient press for in the in the
cell. So to definitely minimize the
potential off event which is one of the
major concern for crisping that's a lot
of advantage for crisping the major
concern is the safety. So with this and
then we also um demonstrate um using the
animal model um we generated many many
years ago when I was at Dr. dash lab and
there many people use this line too. uh
just shows you this is a very busy slide
a lot of work to get a few key point one
is we deliver the crisp editing at day
one of the mice after birth day 21 day
42 in this particular loan motor assay
it's almost very very similar regardless
day one day 21 and day 42 so that's the
one point key point second key point
which shows multiple cast 9 all working
well for step technology which shows you
the step may be able to adapt to many
different type of the cash now other
editor. Uh this Allison shows you this
slide yesterday and we just quickly
shows you um with the content which
clearly see this as treat with crisper
doing much much better all similar to
the white type.
We have shear have done a battery of lot
of behavior testing because the time I
just shows you a few key one. The second
one we just show you is this sie
susceptibility. Clearly with this
paradigm developed by B a field part of
UNC you can see the again different day
day one or day 21 treatment they
significant suppress the seizure
threshold inj
mouse model. So with that I'm going to
turn to Allison.
>> Great. So what you can see is, you know,
he he called me and said, "You're never
going to believe this. There's this guy
at Yale, his name is Jang Bang Zoo, and
he has this amazing technology, and I
think it works for Angelmen syndrome."
And I thought he was going to show me a
couple cell lines, and we were going to
get excited and fund grant to see if it
worked. But instead, he showed me all of
this animal data that Shauna had been
doing. And what he showed was not only
that it rescued every phenotype, but it
rescued it at newborn, at juvenile, and
at adult ages. And in some assays,
adults did better than the newborns. So
I was like, we have to support this.
This is incredible. And so this is where
we decided we're going to create a team,
work together, and figure out a way to
get this to humans because, as you know,
really the only thing I care about is
getting out of a mouse and getting into
a human. And that's where my my strength
is is what can we do to move this out of
an academic lab and actually get it into
a clinical center. And so Jennifer I
recruited into this and said we have to
do this. And she fully agreed and was
blown away. And she's been she's not
standing here, she's sitting there. But
she's been a force with this program.
And I'm going to explain why because
it's actually really really complicated.
It's beautifully elegant but also
incredibly complicated. And she's been
an unbelievable force on how we do that.
So when we think about the translation,
that next step to get from the Angelman
mouse to an Angelman human, there's a
lot of steps that we take and I'm not
going to walk you through every bit of
it, but it's the the safety assessments
to understand is does it go where we
want it to go and is it safe. So the
steps it takes to get through that is
called um you know the investigational
approach to getting to a first in human
clinical trial are IND enabling studies.
It's those studies required by the
regulatory authorities and for us to
feel comfortable that it's doing what we
want it to do. And so those experiments
are really assessing very critical
information related to safety, related
to toxicity, understanding if it's, you
know, having any ill effects, but also
is it targeting the goal? Is it
targeting the anti-sense transcript? Is
it knocking down the anti-sense
transcript? and is it expressing the
paternal UB3A gene ultimately making the
paternal UB3A protein and is it
affecting anything outside of that?
Right, that's the target. But what about
offtarget? As Yangi mentioned, we don't
want it to affect anything else other
than the UV3 anti-sense transcript that
could result in a different genetic
disorder. Um, we're dealing with enough.
We don't need a second genetic disorder.
And so it's these studies are really
critical in order to get there. And
again, those are called IND enabling
studies. And a lot of you like, well,
what's taking so long? We've now heard
about this for two years, and why aren't
you in humans yet? Well, these studies
are really complicated. They take a very
long time, and they're very expensive.
So, we really take all these rigorous
activities. We work in parallel. We
really bring in experts in the field to
help us support us in getting this done.
And um you know some of the most
expensive aspects and the most time
consuming parts of this program lie in
this period where we have to understand
the ph what we call the phicodnamics. So
these are big words but ultimately it's
does the step R&P knock it down and
express the UB3 protein where does it go
in the brain? Is it only in the brain
stem? Is it only in the spinal cord? Is
it in the cortex, the hippocampus? the
parts of the brain that we know control
the behaviors of people living with
Angelmen syndrome. And so we want to
make sure it gets throughout the brain
into the critical brain areas that we
believe are going to improve the
symptoms of Angelmen syndrome. How are
we going to deliver it? So that's called
the route of administration. So ROA,
route of administration. If we deliver
it into the spinal cord, can we go from
below at the lumbar spine like ASOS are
delivered as Jim showed you? Is this
behave like an AAV or like an ASO? If we
go from below, can it get to the brain?
If we go from the the base of the skull,
does it get to the brain? Do we need to
go with a little baby um catheter, a
little surgery into the ventricle of the
CSF compartment? And is that going to
give us the best distribution to the
brain? These are critical critical
questions because if it's a single
treatment therapy, we need to get the
best biodistribution in the safest
possible way and we need to be able to
prove that because this is an untested
therapeutic modality. We have a lot of
data on AV gene therapy and how it gets
to the brain and where it goes in the
brain. We have a lot of data on ASOS and
how it gets to the brain and where it
goes in the brain, but we have no data
on this very new crisper technology
because it's not being carried by an ASO
or by an AAV or by a lenti it's being
carried by this novel step component and
so we have to really answer those
questions and then is it safe
where at what dose level that we're
testing this a low dose a mid dose a
high dose? How does that translate from
mouse to monkey? How does that translate
from monkey to human? And we have to
understand is it safe at the doses that
give us the best brain distribution and
that allow for the best UB3A paternal
gene expression. And so these are very
very critical questions that we had to
ask. And so really what I want to show
you is what you probably are going to
register and remember is that we had to
then put it in monkeys, right? And so
this is really important because a mouse
is not a monkey and a monkey is not a
human, but a monkey is closer to a
human. And so we want to know what is
the best way to get it there. Is it
safe? And how do we get to the largest
portion of the brain? So we looked at a
comparative study of monkeys using it
lower spine like an ASO, ICM, back of
the skull like an AV gene therapy or ICV
into the ventricle through a small
little um catheter that goes into the
ventricle in the brain. And if you look
at this at a half an hour on the left of
each one, at 24 hours in the middle, and
at 72 hours on the right, what you can
see is pretty obvious. You can see you
get much more of the compound to the
brain with ICV delivery than you do with
it or ICM. And so we really can see this
bio what we call biodistribution to the
brain and the route of administration is
going to be best if we can deliver it
that way. And doing that because it's
hopefully just a single treatment
therapy is not a hard thing to do. If we
had to do that multiple times with like
an ASO that would be very very
complicated because it is a small
surgery. It's neurosurgery to put a
small catheter right through the skull
and into that compartment. Um but a
single treatment therapy that's possible
and many gene therapies are actually
using that approach because it's
actually a little bit easier. A lot of
neurosurgeons know how to do that to
train people to do that. Even though the
ICM is a little bit less invasive, ICV
is possible because a lot of
neurosurgeons know how to do it. But it
is surgery. And so we needed to answer
that question. And these experiments
really allowed us to be able to do that
and to be able to show that very nice
distribution in these monkeys over time.
And so that has taken almost two years
to get to this point. And what we can
see is that it's tolerated these doses
the monkeys are surviving. And we are
able to see that it goes throughout the
brain by 72 hours. We really see you
know even at 24 and a half an hour we're
seeing a ton of it in the brain. And so
when we put that into a graph, what you
can see is that the entire brain has the
best distribution of the radioisotope
that's being captured by PET CT with the
ICV delivery. And that is the first step
to now the next stages of the program.
With that, there's the manufacturing of
this product. And I need to have a shout
out to Jennifer and Conrad and Derek. I
am only presenting this in the s most
most simplistic way because I remove
myself from all manufacturing
conversations because I find them
maddening and frustrating and they're
too complicated for me to actually
understand. So I'm being an imposttor at
the moment. But ultimately for
manufacturing it's really complicated.
We have to make the final drug using
what we call the drug product in a way
that not only is safe in animals but has
to be the cleanest possible way,
cleanest possible substance for people.
And that's very very complicated. Um
it's expensive, it's complicated, and it
takes a long time. And for this program,
we have a guide, we have a cast protein,
and we have a step molecule. That means
three different manufacturing processes
need to happen. And the quality of that,
and the team that's working on that has
been unbelievably incredible in order to
get that to what we call a good
manufacturing process for people. And so
that takes a lot of time and a lot of
money as well because of those
complicated three components and there's
not a track record like ASOS or gene
therapy on how you manufacture this and
complex it together. So if you put all
of that together which hopefully you may
think is very very complicated but I've
tried to simplify it in a way in which
you can see all of these pieces. You
start here and you go you go you go you
go. This is a drug development program.
It's very very complicated. In order to
get to the goal, which is the only thing
I actually care about, which is getting
to first in human, we have to be able to
show that it works as well in a human as
it does in a mouse because the mouse
only tells us so much. But it takes a
ton of work for the safety piece, for
the manufacturing piece, for the
understanding of age and distribution
piece. And all of that together is what
drives drug development. And this is a
program that is being driven by so many
incredible people that are all
contributing to all of these pieces. And
I I'm just representing this in one
simple picture. And so you know
ultimately these studies that need to
bring human candidate to human
application take a tremendous amount of
coordination a tremendous amount of time
and money very careful coordination
between the real critical teams
preclinical nonclinical manufacturing
regulatory clinical all of this takes a
tremendous amount of collaboration and
every step of this you in drug
development in general there's
unexpected findings sometimes you're
like well the dose that worked in mouse
didn't work in monkey. Well, the dose
that worked in mouse worked too well in
monkey. We have to lower the dose. So,
you have to do all of these studies to
make sure you're really stepping up in a
way that is going to provide the most
information to ensure the rigor and
safety for humans is of utmost
importance and that can take time. So um
ultimately with all of the work that was
done here, we were able to leverage a
grant from the NIH in order to allow us
to leap from mouse to human and that is
the drug development ecosystem and
ultimately as we have done this
discovery and preclinical work and we're
moving toward the acceleration of this
clinical work um it's very exciting to
see this program moving forward you know
day after day and month after month and
it's super exciting to share that with
you. Um, so in conclusion, the program
shows incredible support through
infrastructure and collaboration,
bringing many teams together with
various expertise to allow for
efficiencies that can't really can't be
achieved in any other way. If you don't
get out of your silo, you get in your
own way. And so, everyone on this team
has gotten out of their silo, leveraged
the expertise of others, and allowed
them to work together to really advance
this program. And the fact that Angelman
syndrome is serving as an example for so
many other rare neurogenetic disorders
has allowed us to create this platform
for future personalized medicine. Not
only for Angelmen syndrome, not only for
single mutations that might benefit from
one different type of therapy or
another, but utilizing this platform,
but for other neurodedevelopmental
disorders as well. And so it's wonderful
and it feels great for Angelmen to be
that platform to help so many other
disorders. Um and as you know at fast we
work really hard to ensure that we want
to be the lowhanging fruit. We want to
be the example but we must ensure that
the example we show helps others that we
cannot advance the field if we don't do
that. So we are really leveraging our
pre-clinical and our IND enabling work
and our our clinical capacities
throughout this network to be able to
help many other diseases. Um so
seriously we we could not do this
without the support of the NIH. Um, we
got an over $40 million grant to support
this work. All of this work started in a
lab at Yale. So to these guys, I'm only
presenting the part that matters to me,
which is getting to humans. But we
couldn't do it without the unbelievable
technology that they've developed and
the commitment to the science that they
have had been incredible. And we can't
wait to bring Rush into the fold because
the clinical trial will of course be
supported by Yang at Yale and by Liz at
Rush. So hopefully the next steps is
when we can get to that clinical that
clinical piece which we're just not
quite there yet. Um so a thousand people
to thank. I'm not going to thank the
Yale team. They should thank the Yale
team. But what I can say is that the
collaboration of all of these people has
been so unbelievably incredible. There
is such a commitment to this program by
the team at Yale and courage and
courageous and fast and AS2 bio. Um,
Jennifer is just been a force to be
reckoned with and really been leveraging
the regulatory expertise to get
something so new and so unique um, over
the finish line and really bring that to
humans in a way that's safe, that's
going to be agreeable and applicable for
human application. And so it's been a
real um, a real honor to work with this
team and and I'm proud to represent them
up here. So with that, thank you to all
of these people that have been such a
huge effort in this program.