So I am actually the next speaker. So
I'm just going to stay here and
hopefully no one needs to introduce me.
Um but here we go. So I was asked to
give a talk about understanding clinical
trials from a family perspective. I'm
not here to talk about regulatory and
I'm not here to talk about any of the
the true details from from a drug
developer perspective. I'm here mostly
to talk about how as a guide for
families the questions we should be
asking and how we can empower parents
through knowledge, hope and honestly
clinical trial etiquette. And uh many
people ask me to give the nitty-gritty
of of what parents need to know about
clinical trials, what they need to think
about from a parent perspective, not
from a sponsor perspective. So I am
wearing my parent hat. I am wearing my
fast hat. Um, but obviously as you know
I am the CSO of FASA the co-director of
Abomb the city of AS2 bio. But most
importantly the hat I'm wearing right
now is I am the mother to Quincy.
Here are my disclosures. Okay. So I
shouldn't have to tell you what a
clinical trial is, but there are a lot
of newly diagnosed families here in the
room and they may actually not really be
familiar with what it is and why. So
clinical trials um really test new drugs
or devices or different types of
therapies for safety and potential
efficacy or effectiveness. That's what a
clinical trial is. Each trial includes
spe like specific eligibility criteria.
um basically that are selected with very
careful consideration of who should be
included in this clinical trial and for
what reason and and and that's called
inclusion or exclusion criteria which
I'll I'll talk a little bit about and
and that could be different things like
what is their age what is their genotype
what is their prior treatment exposure
what else have they seen in their body
that could interact with potentially
what we're trying to measure here what
other medications are they on what other
disorders might they have? These are all
very very important pieces that we have
to know about our children as we think
about enrolling them in a clinical
trial. So inclusion criteria means
what characteristics of a person must
they have to be eligible to be in that
specific clinical trial? And really it
defines who can participate in that
trial. On the other hand, there's
exclusion criteria which essentially
defines who disqualifies, who cannot be
included in that clinical trial. And
those decisions generally are not made
because anyone wants to exclude anyone.
we're the most inclusive, of course. Um,
but it's because maybe that person with
whatever other things going on in their
life, whether it's a genotype, whether
it's an age, whether it's other
medications that they're on, whether
it's any other condition that they might
have, really are deemed to not be the
perfect candidate for these early
studies in which we would be testing
some type of drug or biologic or or
device. Um, so there are these inclusion
criteria which you must meet and these
are there are these exclusion criteria
which could disqualify you. It doesn't
mean you're disqualified from
everything. It just means you you may be
disqualified from that specific trial at
that specific time. And as sponsors
learn more and more about their drug,
they're going to include more and more
over time because they're going to
broaden their um the view in which
they're looking at their therapeutic.
Clinical trials are conducted under very
strict regulatory oversight. And so you
have to be very precise. You have to be
very careful. And parents that means
have to follow the rules. They have to
show up when they're supposed to show
up. they have to report what they're
supposed to report and let's go through
that as a parent. What's really
important for you to understand? Um, so
why you may say like why do we have to
do clinical trials if there's a drug?
Why can't all people get them? Well,
clinical trials test safety and the
potential improvement or lack of
improvement in the lives of people
affected with a disorder like Angelman
syndrome. And so these trials may be may
be conducted to understand how a new
technology behaves in people which means
there's risk and there's potential
benefit but everybody needs to
understand that each participant and
their family are incredibly brave if
they are contributing to advancing the
science understanding they are taking a
major risk of the unknown And that is
not for everyone. It is not for the
faint of heart. And it is a very serious
commitment that families have to be
prepared for.
The parents of our children are the true
partners in the discovery effort to
understand
drugs and how they work. Their
commitment to the requirements of these
clinical trials cannot be underestimated
and is incredibly prudent in order to be
successful in these therapies.
Parents need to be able to ask
questions. They need to understand what
is expected of them. They need to
understand what is going to happen step
by step in their child. And they need to
carefully listen to the required
schedule which is called the schedule of
assessments,
the expectations of their participation
and the potential risk of their
participation.
And I can tell you that I know a lot of
parents that get information about
trials before they enroll on an informed
consent, which we're going to talk
about, don't even read it. They don't
listen because they're so excited that
they sign it.
You have to read it. You have to listen
to the doctors and you have to pay
attention and ask questions because you
are signing something that could be
risky to your child. This is real. The
fact that we're even talking about this
is so exciting. But this is real and
there is real potential for benefit, but
there is real potential for risk. And as
we are in these early stage programs,
until we have a lot more information,
you have to read it. You have to ask
questions. And so I don't think I need
to tell anybody about the phases of
clinical trials, right? But what I want
to share is you heard yesterday about
really what we call phase zero, which is
like all the pre-clinical stuff, all of
the animal work, all of the things we
need to prove that we can get to first
in human. Then there's the early phase,
phase one often mixed with phase two in
rare disease where it's a small number
of participants. Gene therapy trials may
be six people, nine people, 12 people,
very very very small numbers of people
to understand safety and dose
durability effect. All of those things
are are hopefully determined in those
early stage programs as you saw with the
ASOS. Those ASO phase one two studies
went on for years before they moved into
the pivotal which is your phase three.
Your phase three generally recruits more
numbers of participants having a a
bigger track record of the understanding
of a drug or a biologic.
A lot more information will be given to
you about that drug or biologic because
a lot more has been learned in the human
space. And in those trials, sometimes
there's what we call a control, meaning
some patients get the drug and some
patients don't get the drug to compare
against
treatment and no treatment. In some
phase three studies, there isn't a
control because, for example, in a gene
therapy, you can't actually put a needle
in the skull behind the skull and
deliver saline. You you can't do that.
that's not really would be considered
ethical. So there are certain ways in
which you can't do a controlled study
easily, but you might be able to do a
sham study more easily. And so you have
to realize different studies are going
to look a little different um because
there are some things you can and can't
do for for permanent treatment
therapies. And you saw this yesterday
where we have multiple programs and
clinical trials, six programs and
clinical trials currently and they're
all in different phases, but we have
three more programs that are coming into
this space hopefully in the coming years
and multiple behind that. Our AV gene
therapy, you heard about
our ASOS, our HSC gene therapy,
hopefully very soon. Our ASOS are now in
phase three, so they're in the
controlled phase.
Our crisper gene editor you just heard
about is hopefully going to be in a
phase one, two in the in the near term.
Small molecules, sir, mirna, we we heard
um a bit about that from encoded the
other day uh from Emma on yesterday,
yesterday morning and hopefully we'll
hear more about from them next year. And
then some of the small molecules, some
of the downstream targets like a loabbat
from RO or the neuron drug. These are
all in different phases and they're all
going to look quite different because
they have different risk profiles and
they're going to include different types
of patients for various different
reasons. And so the steps to enrollment,
this is quite complicated. There are
multiple different steps. One, you have
to find the trial. Two, there's this
pre-screening period. Then there's a
screening visit. Then you have to read
an informed consent.
Then you enroll. Then you have to do
baseline assessments to understand where
your child is starting from. Then they
participate in the study and they they
hopefully get a study drug and then you
have to do a lot of followup and a lot
of you know understanding of the safety
and the potential efficacy. So there is
an incredible amount that goes into
this. So how do you find a trial?
The best place to find a trial is on
clinical trials.gov. Jennifer did a
really great presentation a couple years
ago about this. So you go on clinical
trials.gov www.clinicaltrials.gov.
You type in Angelmen Syndrome and it has
all of the clinical trials that are
either open for enrollment or recruiting
for enrollment on the trial or that are
are part of the the study and that might
be enrolling. That's where you find the
sites. That's where you find who to
contact if you are interested in hearing
more. That's not how you enroll. It's
how you know what's available and how
you contact the sites if you want to
hear more. The other places that you'll
get that information is at the advocacy
group advocacy group level. So at the
fast website, at the ASF website, and we
try to collaborate and work together to
alert the community in the newsletters,
on social media about sites that are
opening or trials that are recruiting,
but you are going to need to do some of
the leg work yourself and you should
look regularly if you're interested on
clinical trials.gov.
You want to then discuss the the the
consideration and the interest with your
neurologist or clinical care team to
decide if this is appropriate for you as
a family and for your child. Is that
specific trial suitable for you? There's
many things you may not know about it
that you're going to learn as you talk
to some of the doctors. If you decide
that this is something you would like
more information on, you can contact the
trial site at clinicaltrials.gov or the
sponsor sometimes has a generalized
website where you can contact them and
then they will connect you to the
clinical trial sites that are closest to
you in your region, in your state,
wherever wherever you are globally. Then
you want to inquire about all of the
options, not just one that your child
might be eligible for. Don't just jump
on the first thing you see, a gene
therapy, because maybe there's an ASO
that's available that your child could
qualify for. Maybe there's a crisper
gene editor that's available that your
child could qualify for. You want to
know all of the options. Remember,
knowledge is power. You need to
understand all of your options.
Understand the differences to make an
educated decision for your child. And is
that trial right for you? You need to
understand all of that. If you decide a
trial you think you're really interested
in and you determine you think is right
for you, then you're going to contact
the site and you're going to talk to the
site and they're going to do what we
call a pre-screening. That pre-screening
is where the study team will contact you
for an initial review of your child's
medical history. That can include all
sorts of things. It could be done by the
phone. It could be done by email or it
could be done in person.
And they're going to ask you a lot of
questions
trying to figure out if your child fits
the basic inclusion or exclusion
criteria.
Are they are they meeting those
criteria? Does your child actually
qualify? And if it is determined that
they qualify, then they're going to ask
to share more medical records to confirm
that, which might include some
laboratory test results. So, you want to
have access to that. What is their
genetic test results? Do you have their
diagnosis of their genetics? Is it a
deletion because someone told you it's a
deletion? Or do you have a piece of
paper that says it's a deletion? Is it a
mutation? Is it UPD? Is it ICD? What are
the genetic tests that were done? get
access to that information and have that
at the ready so you can send that to the
sites. They're going to want you to
share those laboratory results, prior
testing information, understanding their
age, your location, where you live, and
any other problems they have. Don't hide
those things because you're worried they
won't be included because it might not
be safe for your child if they have
something else going on. Do they have
any associated heart disease? Do they
have any associated kidney disease? Do
they have diabetes, hypertension? Are
they mobile? Don't like, well, my child
can walk from the couch to the TV and
back to the couch, but they never walk
throughout the rest of the day and they
generally are in a push chair. They're
not considered fully ambulatory. You
have to be honest about that because the
reason ambulatory matters could be for
safety reasons and you want to ensure
that your child really fits in the right
criteria for those studies. So then if
it's determined that things are looking
good for that child, you're going to
have a screening visit. You're going to
go to the site. You're going to meet the
study doctor and you're going to spend
time talking to that person about what's
going to happen over the course of the
study and the details of the study, the
eligibility, the inclusion, the
exclusion. They're going to make that
very clear. They're going to go over
with you all of those details and
they're going to explain to you all of
the steps. Um, the visit has to include,
you know, that baseline data collection,
new blood work, are they healthy? All of
these things are going to explain all of
that to you. Are they able to
participate and get that MRI that's
required? Are they able to get a lumbar
puncture that's required? Well, if your
child has scoliosis and rods, maybe
multiple LPS is going to be a challenge.
So, maybe that's not the best study for
you. Maybe they're thinking a different
study would be better for you where you
wouldn't have to repeat dose into the
spinal space. So, these are all really,
really important things. They're going
to talk to you about something called an
informed consent form, which is required
to be signed before they can do anything
with your child. They can talk to you
before that, but they can't pull blood.
They can't do an MRI. They can't do any
other assessments until you fi sign this
informed consent. And so, that informed
consent process is a serious serious
process. And all I can say is you have
to read it. I I know. When I talk to the
PIs, a lot of people don't read it and
they just say yes, yes, yes. You have to
pay attention. You have to read it. This
is where you're going to learn as much
as possible about these studies. You're
going to learn the goals, the
procedures, the duration, the
expectations for you as a family, the
expectations for your child, the study
schedule, the duration of time the study
is going to take, the potential risks,
hopefully the potential benefits, and
the right of privacy and withdrawal. So,
if you want to pull your child out, what
what does that look like? The privacy of
your child, all of those things are
going to be in there. You need to ask
questions before signing anything
because sometimes um the informed
consents can be a little bit vague. So
you want to make sure that you ask the
questions that you have. That's very
very important. What's the dose? What's
the experience at the site of doing that
procedure? What's the experience in the
field with that technology? What's the
experience in the field for Angelmen
syndrome with that technology? Maybe
even what's the experience in animals
with this technology? Where can I hear
about that information? You have the
right to ask those questions.
Often you're given this form prior to
the visit where you're asked to read it
and then come to the site ready to sign
it. If you're interested and ask your
questions, read it. Even if you're
reading it in the car, on the plane, I
don't really care. Just read it. You
have to write questions down. Ask the
questions. when you're in front of the
study doctor, you're nervous. You might
not think about the questions that you
should be asking. So, take some time
beforehand and ask those questions. For
children and adults with as um they're
not able to provide their own consent,
so the parents have to do it for them
and that's very very important. So,
understanding that process is key.
explaining the purpose, the expectation
and the requirements. As I said,
reviewing carefully
and asking your questions, understanding
the schedule of expectations for you,
how often do I need to come back to the
hospital? How many EEGs? How many blood
draws? How many MRIs? How many CSF taps?
Those are questions you need to know and
you can't just blip by them. Remember
that participation is voluntary, but you
must commit to satisfy the requirements.
And if you can't, do not enroll in that
study. One, you're taking a spot from
somebody else. And two, if you know you
can't commit to it, you have to be
honest about that. You can withdraw at
any time and you have to remember that
if you are not comfortable with what is
happening with your child, you can
withdraw. The data um may be shared that
you're committing to these trials. The
data that you produce may be shared with
other vendors. Your CSF fluid might be
shared with other vendors. It's
generally deidentified, but you may be
sharing information about your child
with other vendors, and that's all in
the informed consent. So again, read it
carefully. Then your child may be
enrolled in a trial. Once they're
confirmed to meet the inclusion
criteria, you sign the informed consent.
The primary investigator and the parent
agree it's the right thing for that
child. They will enroll. Study
coordinators then will come in and they
will schedule the visits for you and
provide you with the details of the
instructions of all of the next steps.
Working closely with those coordinators
is absolutely key so that each
participant receives the information
they need. They all get an ID that's
deidentified. So when you see patient
numbers in clinical trials, nobody knows
who they are. It's very important that
it's essentially anonymous for those
families. Then they're going to get
baseline assessments, measurements,
evaluations, the orca, the bailey, the
vinand, an MRI, a CT. All of these
things are those baseline assessments to
know your starting point. And then over
time, you're going to get um all of
these assessments repeated to see how
things change over time. Some of these
end points are clinician reported,
meaning you're doing a test and the
clinician is assessing the the patient.
Others are parent reported. So you're
filling out a survey or they're asking
you questions or you're doing an
interview. Clinician reported and parent
reported both have huge value in drug
development. Often a tablet's used to
fill out some of these. So you might
take a tablet home or you might do it at
the site. All things to participate.
Then with study participation,
they get a treatment. Then they get
monitored. Then they have follow-up
visits. You must report any and all side
effects whether they're drugreated or
not drugrelated. Ultimately the doctor
will determine if the side effects are
drugreated. But you as a parent have the
right to say I'm having a side effect
with my child and this only happens
after my child receives this therapy. I
believe this is drugrelated. You have
the right to say that. You have the
right to report what you see and you
cannot hide what you see because what
you're going to do is you could cover up
a safety signal that can harm other
patients in the future. It's very
important you report everything to your
study doctor. The data is collected both
for efficacy and safety and after active
participation that follow-up period can
vary one year, two years, even three
months and then for gene therapies it
could be five years or 15 years. What
are you committing to? You have to know
that. You may receive study updates
generally, not necessarily about your
child. You're going to see it in press
releases, in presentations, in um, you
know, in investor calls. Listen to them,
watch them, pay attention to them
because the data of your child is going
to be in there buried with other
children and adults as well. And the
results are often only presented in the
early stages in these public forums. So
key questions to ask, there's lists of
them. What's the goal of this trial?
What are the possible risks and the
possible benefits of enrolling in this
trial? What happened in the animal
studies? What do we need to think about
for humans? Will my child receive
treatment? Will they receive a placebo?
Will they receive a sham? Will they
receive a sugar pill? What is my child
going to get? And if they're on that
control, when will they change over to
get treatment, if at all? You have to
know that. How often do I need to come
back to the hospital? Will there be
assessments done locally? Do I need to
come back in? All of the things you need
to be very critical of. Is this a single
treatment therapy? Is it a repeat
treatment therapy? How is that done? Who
do I contact if I have a problem? Get
their phone number. Get their email. You
have to have someone to contact if
there's a problem. What happens if I
want to withdraw? What's the process of
that? How do I do that? Who pays for
this? Who's paying for the cost? Who's
paying to get to the site? Who's paying
for parking? Who's paying to leave the
site? Who's paying for food? Who's
paying for all of this? You have to ask
these questions. And then once all the
phases are complete, will my child be
able to stay on the drug? If not, when
will my child be able to get the drug
again? All of these things you need to
ask. So make a checklist. Review and
understand your ICF. Ask all of the
questions. Keep copies of all of the
documents. Confirm you know the contact
person and their number and that you can
always reach out to them with any
questions. Keep a schedule of all of
your appointments. Show up when you're
supposed to show up. Know the days and
the times. Discuss travel and lodging
and reimbursement logistics. And know
your right to withdraw at any time
because you have that right. And so
lastly, we'll end with appropriate
etiquette.
Avoid sharing trial details on social
media. I cannot emphasize that enough.
Nobody should be talking about their
experience in clinical trials on social
media. It creates havoc and expectation
that can destroy a clinical trial. Most
of these trials start off open label and
then people have expectations of what to
expect. You can't do that. You could
talk about it privately with your
friends and family, but you should not
talk about it publicly in a clinical
trial until the data has been shared.
Very important. The same caregiver
should be doing all of the assessments
each time. If it was dad that started,
dad should finish. If it's mom that
started, mom should be there for all of
the assessments. Consistency is
everything. If side effects occur, they
must be immediately shared with your
study doctor. Nothing, like I said,
should be shared on Facebook, Instagram,
Tik Tok, LinkedIn, whatever. Stop doing
it. No private Facebook groups so you
think no one sees it. We all know. Don't
do it. It's just really destructive to
the program. And don't predict what
you're going to see. You set
expectations that might be unrealistic.
Drugs might work. They might not work.
Let it let the data show if the drug is
working. You're allowed to be excited.
You're allowed to be proud of what you
see, but don't predict to create a sense
of expectations. Try not to. It's really
hard. If you see community members at a
trial site, they may be in different
clinical trials or at a community event.
Try not to talk about it your your trial
experience with them. Try to keep it
private because you're setting
expectations.
Um, and try not to talk to industry
members about your experience in
clinical trials at conferences like
this. I know it's hard, but don't go up
to Ionis or Ultragenics or RO or OILL
and say, "My daughter's in your trial
and I'm having this experience." That's
not who you should be talking to about
that. you should be talking to your
study doctor about that because they are
really meant to be blinded to who's in
the trial and have a line in the sand
from those patients. So, it's not great
to do that. So, try not to try to be a
little bit more vague about things. I
know that's hard as well. And then
finally, respect confidentiality, data
integrity, and your child's privacy.
Track groups are are discouraged. Be
mindful of community influence on
outcomes
and any adverse events albeit
drugrelated or non-drugrelated must be
reported to trial sites. They have to be
taken very seriously. Our other
co-atriots of parents and families
deserve to know what the risks are for
their child who are not yet in that
trial. And if you don't report it, they
will not learn from that. It's very,
very important. You must make sure your
concerns are heard at every level.
Empower yourself as a family to ask
questions.
Ensure that you do not disclose your
child's participation publicly. Document
your journey. Take videos before of all
the things your child can't do. Take
videos after of all the things your
child can do. And then you have that to
show pre and post. It doesn't mean the
study wants that information, but you
want that information in your own life
as your own diary. I encourage you to do
that. Try and document their skills
leading up to that. Listen to the study
updates and share your experience, good
or bad, with the study doctor. That's
really how you empower yourself to be
part of the journey of drug development.
So with that, remember always knowledge
is power. You can't make decisions on
things you don't understand. So, we have
to all contribute to the research and we
have to all ask questions. So, with
that, thank you.
Okay, so we are due for a break. Um,
that break is going to we're going to
return in about uh 10 minutes. So, it's
going to be a short break. And I want
everyone to know people that want more
t-shirts. Apparently, everyone wants
these t-shirts, but they close soon. If
you want more and you already got one, I
guess they're selling them for $20, but
go outside, go to the t-shirt making
area, tell them what you want, and you
can get more t-shirts. But I think they
close at 12:30. So, anybody that wants
to get more t-shirts, go ahead and get
them because they won't be there after
the final session where we're going to
hear from the ASO programs.