Our next speaker, um, I am so happy to
welcome you back, Brenda. Uh, Dr. Brenda
Vincenzi is coming to us from Oakill
Bio. If you all remember, she is the
woman with the greatest accent ever that
used to present on the Ro ASO clinical
program for Ruga Nursson in the phase
one two, but she is back and she is
going to be talking to us about the
phase three study, the Beacon study for
Ruga Nursen, lighting the way for
Angelmen Syndrome. Brenda
accent.
>> I love your accent.
>> Hi everyone. I know that Alison miss my
Italian accent.
So yeah, my name is Brenda Vincenti. I'm
an MD and as Alison said, I used to be
the medical lead for the Rugo nursing
trial at Rush. H I recently joined. You
probably know that Okil Bio has acquired
Rug Nursen from ROS and I recently
joined the company along with other uh
three exos colleagues that were part of
the Rug Nursen team.
A brief disclosure. So Ruggon is an
investigational medicine that has not
been approved for the treatment of any
diseases by the FDA or any other
regulatory authorities.
And here you see the agenda for today.
Um I'll give you a brief introduction to
the company to Oakill Bio and then we go
into the Angelman syndrome program
history and the mechanism of action of
Ruggon
the results of Tangelo our phase one uh
trial that was recently completed and
the results are published on in nature
medicine and our plans as Eliso
mentioned to uh for our phase three
study called the beacon
oak biosil bio and the mission of the
company is really to rescue and advance
promising they prioritize molecules
exactly like rugon if you work in you
know in in pharmaceutical companies you
you know that sometimes for internal
reasons nothing to do with the molecule
or the safety or the lack of efficacy
some molecules are somehow the
prioritized and Okil bio and did the
same with another molecule in neonatlogy
acquired uh rugon to continue his
clinical development and to really like
start the phase three.
Here is our uh team that we are all
present here at fast and we have a booth
outside just outside the the room. So if
you would like to stop by and to say hi
we would really like to meet you in
person and as you can see like four out
of five like we're actually exhaust
a part of the rugen team. So we are very
very happy to be back and thank you very
much to fast for inviting Okil Bio.
Our ways of working. So we are uh
committed to transparent communication
to the Angelman syndrome community.
Whenever possible we aim to share
updates during the journey toward the
first patient enrolled into the BCON
trial
in German syndrome. the program history
and the mechanism of action of nursing.
Here you see so we've been working with
with the Angelman syndrome community for
a number of years now and we we
highlighted the most important uh um
elements that and and then publications
and studies that we have completed so
far. So back in 2015 we developed the
disease concept model in collaboration
with a bomb to really understand what's
important like for clinician clinicians
and caregivers when we develop a
molecule like to treat Angelerman
syndrome the observational study in
collaboration with biogenionis called
frias that was completed and then
tangelo our phase one uh trial with
rugon which I will describe later
especially the the results recently
published and then rush completed a PET
study to really understand the
biodistribution of rug nurse and when
administered uh through alumba puncture
and where we are today we are very close
to start the beon phase three trial
mechanism of action organis so I'm not
going to go of course into details of
the biology of that you know very well
but here's the mechanism of action so
organ is an anti-sensor lionucleotide
that really targets this long block this
long anticense which is responsible for
silencing the patternal alil in
individuals withman syndrome. So you see
the the arrow here uh rogon like targets
the antisense remove the block so that
the patternal alil is free to express
the ubit protein which is missing in the
brain of individuals with enjaman
syndrome.
Here's um an overview of the drug
development process. You also heard this
morning like it takes a long time like
for drugs to reach the market and um
unfortunately sometimes many of these
molecules they die through throughout
the process of of development. So the
first step is discovery. So the first
things that we need to do is really to
identify like our target and uh at that
point the rogon was one of more than
2,000 anti-sense oligonucleotide that
were investigated at rush and that was
brought ahead into what we call the
preclinical phase of development meaning
that we um we test rugersonen in uh
animals in different species we have
toxicology studies so a number of
studies and When everything is ready,
all the dosier is is submitted to the
health authorities. In this case in the
US, the FDA the FDA gave us like their
green light to start what we call the
clinical development. Meaning that we
were ready to start to test Rugon in uh
in the clinic in individuals with
Angelman syndrome. And so we started
Tangelo Tangela our phase one study. And
in rare diseases sometimes we go a bit
faster like we saw from a phase one or
phase one two. uh we go directly into
phase phase three and that's exactly
where we are today uh almost ready to
start our phase three beacon
um the reason why we believe in rugon so
first of all and I'm always very excited
like to show that graph that that you
see on the left side the preclinical we
have preclinical evidence like that rug
nursing when administered in animals in
this case in monkeys does exactly what
it's supposed to be doing meaning that
what We want to see when is a minister
intratically in in this case in a monkey
we want to see that that block that I
mentioned before the anti-sense goes
down and is kept down and that's the is
the um orange line that you see on the
graph but that's not sufficient what we
want to see is that the mRNA so that
contains all the informations to make
the protein is going up and that's uh
you see like on on the the yellow line
on the graph but the most important
thing that we want to see is the protein
the U3 protein that is reexpressed and
is going up and maintain up to 85 days
at least that that's where we uh stopped
the measuring
now and we presented that the
preclinical evidence like many times but
now we are in a different position we
also have clinical data we have data
from 61 individuals age 1 to 12 that
were enrolled in the tangelo study that
shows that rug nursing treatment led to
reduction of abnormal brain activity ity
the EG the delta band that you heard
many times and also led to improvements
in cognition, expressive communication
and other uh domains and we at different
skills.
Um so the reason why we believe we look
uh into all of this so we have a
preclinical data that confirms the rugon
um is a potent drug that really
reexpressed the ubitrain in in animals
in monkeys. We have the pet study. This
uh uh the study that was run at rush uh
with micro doses of rugon that was were
administered intratically uh to um
healthy adults to really see where does
rug nursing go when once is administered
intratically. So we really know that
rugon gets to the brain and then we have
tangelo clinical data that shows that
rugon is safe and otherwhat tolerated in
the clinic and also shows um efficacy
respiratory efficacy at both the eg and
the scales.
So overall you see that we have a potent
drug like rugoner is is has a high
potency. We can go high with the dose
and overall the high potency uh sum up
with a high dose is giving us a high
potential of translating this into
clinical benefit for individuals with
engineerman syndrome.
Now Tangelo the phase one study so
tangelo started a few years ago was
recently completed by rash is an open
label study so everyone received rugon
and the active drug we enrolled 61
individuals age 1 to 12 with either a
deletion or mutation genotype. We
started with what we call the multiple
ascending dose part of the study when we
started with very low doses and with
older children 5 to 12 and then little
by little we do escalated every time
that we had a um we look at the data. We
had an external monitoring committee to
look at the safety data and they were
given the green light to continue to
those escalate. Once the MID part of the
study was completed, then we started the
long-term extension like to continuously
uh observe the uh the long-term
efficacy, respiratory efficacy and
safety and tolerability of rugon. The
main goals, the primary goals of the
study were safety and tolerability,
understand the drug behavior and that
what we call exploratory efficacy. So to
look at the EG and to look at the skills
and here you see exactly like what um
what I just described. So we start with
the Bailey in uh on the slide you see
the cognition and expressive
communication and the MID and the
long-term extension part of the study.
In red you see what we would expect from
from the natural history trajectory that
we know very well right from syndrome.
And then we see in blue the trajectory
of individual treated with rugon. And
you see that this is a positive outcome.
we see that rug nursing really improve
like the uh cognition and expressive
communication domains in individuals
with within. And then on the bottom um
graph you see the EG and um you see here
that the red line is the natural history
trajectory and the blue line is what we
see once individuals enrolled in Tajun
or received Rugon. So you see like the
acrylic this was a dose dependent effect
with decrease of the delta band uh once
uh individuals were treated with roners.
On the on the right side you see a QR
code. So um the these data are published
in nature medicine. You see the
screenshot of the actual publication is
a scientific of course paper but the QR
code if you scan you are redirected to
fast US and to the lay language summary
of the tangelo results.
So overall um this was the this is the
first publish antisensor lingonucleotide
trial in Angelman syndrome
is safe and adequately tolerated. It may
improve brain activity, the EG and
development in children with Angelman
syndrome uh which showed significant
improvements in several developmental
skills. And now we are ready to start
the phase three beacon trial. But before
we go to the to Beacon uh you know that
as I mentioned we had a number of
families enrolled in the in the study.
So what happens to the family especially
now that there is this transition from
Russia to Okil bio. So I'm really
actually happy to share that Oil Bio has
started what we call the expanded access
program. So from families that uh wish
to continue to receive Rogo Nursen and
they have signed informed consent for
the optional open label extension part
of the Tangelo trial. They can continue
to receive the drug both in the US and
in Europe. The early access uh program
already started first in Europe and now
in in the US as well. There is an email
address for people that are interested
to learn more about the early access
program.
And now we go to BCON, our phase three.
So BCON is a randomized multi-enter
double blind placebo control phase three
clinical study to evaluate efficacy,
safety, pharmacodnamics of intratically
administer rug nursing, impediatric and
adult participants with syndrome.
more in details. We plan to enroll
approximately 150 participants age 1 to
50 uh included both males and females
with either a deletion or mutation
genotype. This is a global study and we
are planning to start in the US in Q1
next year.
Study design uh very simple study
design. We start like any other clinical
trial with the screening uh window and
then patient are randomized one to one.
So there is a 50% chance uh to um to go
into the rugur and the active arm or the
placebo arm. The first part uh last
approximately 12 months. After this
first part all participant will join the
open label part of the study which will
last approximately two years. So
everyone will receive rug nuren the
assessment this is not a comprehensive
list but we are planning to include uh
the user case so the ba4 of course we
continue with the eg uh clinical case
the cgi um and other caregiver
questionnaires the violand the the ora
the orca and and other skills
we are planning to support families of
course in bo every site and Every
country have their own guidance
regulation. So we do invite families to
really reach out to their own site to
really understand what kind of support
they are they expect to receive from
their sites. But we are planning to
support with travel with meals, family
hotels, stairs nearby if whenever needed
and then the comfort items uh during the
study visits.
This is my last slide. These are what we
call the inclusion exclusion criteria.
This again is not a comprehensive list
but who can take part of the beacon
trial as said before males and females
to children uh teens adults age 1 to 50
included with both a clinical and
genetic diagnosis of injur syndrome on
stable med medical condition and stable
medication for at least four weeks prior
to prior to screening depending on the
medication body weight um minimum 7
kilograms
caregivers. So the caregivers play a
very important role like in the BCON
trial so they can they have to attend
the visit, share updates and complete
questionnaires.
And there is an important note that you
see on the on the yellow part. We are
asking caregivers to not uh post any
study details, any impression like from
having their child or the loved one
enroll in the beacon trial or any social
media because this can really affect or
negatively affect and bias uh negatively
affect the outcome of the trial.
Um and then who cannot take part of the
trial. So at the moment we are not
including UPD and ICD or individuals who
has serious um heart, liver, kidney or
other uh diseases or um ongoing
infection or anything that pose a risk
to the to the lamb puncture procedure uh
or prior participate ongoing
participator participation in other ASO
one gene uh cell therapy trial.
Uh this is my last slide. So thank you
very much for your attention and I'm
looking forward to the panel to receive
your question. Thank you.