Our next speaker is Dr. Kim Goodspeed,
who I introduced yesterday, so I don't
think she needs another introduction.
She's going to be talking to us about
GTX 102, what we've learned together.
Kim,
uh, hello everybody. Um, thanks so much,
uh, for the opportunity to be here today
again. Um, so for those of you I didn't
get to meet yesterday, I'm Kim
Goodspeed. I'm a child neurologist uh by
training been with ultragenics for a bit
now and I get to have the distinct honor
and pleasure of being the clinical
development lead for our GTX 102 program
and of course GTX 102 is our anti-sense
nucleotide ASO for Angelmen syndrome. Um
before we dive too deeply though I did
want to say thank you again. Um so thank
you to FAST for letting us come be part
of the programming here this uh this
summit. It's been an amazing summit.
lots of exciting science happening. Um,
thank you to those of you out there
listening and interested to learn more
and dive into stuff that's really
complicated. Um, we really appreciate
all of your questions and your feedback.
Thanks to our participants and families
who have trusted us to go on the journey
with us and been part of our trials to
date and um to those study teams out
there who are making all of the magic
happen at the study sites so that we can
actually do the studies, answer the
questions and move things forward. So,
thank you everybody. So, uh,
disclaimers, of course, GTX 102 is an
investigational drug and I'm presenting
open label interim data. So, we're going
to share some data from our phase one
two study. You've seen this before, but
we're thinking about it in a slightly
different way and getting to dig deeper
into the methodology. For those of you
who were here yesterday, some of the
slides are repeated. Um, but my
grandmother was an elementary school
teacher and I think I learned from her
that it's really important to hammer
home messages and repeat things that are
important. So, we're going to go through
those slides again. Um and of course I'm
an employee of ultragenics.
So who is ultragenics? Um all we do is
rare. We do rare and ultra rare
diseases. And um we were founded in 2010
by Amal Kakis and he saw a problem. He
was working on MPS1 mopacyosis type one
at the time and saw that it was really
hard to do drug development for rare
diseases and he thought he could make a
difference. So he's now built out a team
of 1300 employees. Uh we're based out of
Nevada in Northern California, but I
live in Texas. We've got people all over
the globe that are working to help bring
new drugs to uh disorders that don't
have treatments right now.
And this is GTX 102. So we'll just spend
a tiny bit of time here. Um I think this
audience knows what ASOs are by this
point, but um GTX 102's job is to bind
to the anti-sense transcript and allow
for expression of the paternal al. So it
does that by binding to that transcript
causing it to be degraded. That opens up
the paternal alil for expression so that
you get to use that backup copy from dad
to make UB3A protein.
We um have looked at a lot of different
outcome measures and see that we're
seeing some improvements across some of
the core symptoms of Angelman syndrome
and we've had a generally pretty good
safety profile. So, here's some of the
most common safety events that we've
seen in our phrase one two trial. We do
have a safety event that we monitor
closely. Um, it's an adverse event of
special interest or AESI or you may have
heard the term ridiculopathy in some of
our other presentations. What that
essentially means is that we've had a
few kids who have had some sensory
changes or some motor changes that have
impacted how they were able to walk for
a short period of time. They all
recovered completely. nobody had any
long-lasting impact and we're able to go
back on drug and have improvements uh
without having any recurrence of this
event. So, it's an important event. It's
an event that we monitor for, but we
know how to monitor for it. We know how
to identify it. We know how to treat it.
And most importantly, we know how to get
kids back on drugs so that they can
continue to receive potential benefits
from GTX 102. So the way we've
structured this talk today is we're in a
nice interesting time in our program
where our phase three study is running
right now and so we've got a little bit
of time to reflect a tiny bit of time I
think. But we were thinking about all of
the lessons we've learned from you as a
community and how much you've made our
program better. So lesson number one was
measure what matters. And so y'all are
the experts on Angelmen. you know what
it's like to live in your household with
your loved ones that have Angelman
syndrome and the daily challenges that
you face and it's our job and my team's
job to figure out how do we turn those
daily challenges into things we can
measure as clinical outcome measures. So
one of the ways we've done that is by
learning from your natural history
studies, learning from your disease
concept studies, and then also learning
from our own data. So, we can look at
our baseline data and we've got a poster
up that um summarizes all of this. But
what I thought was really exciting and
our team was excited about was that this
data really reflects that we're able to
measure and quantify the symptoms that
you've told us matter. And what that
means is that we're able to put a number
to it and that's a number that we can
follow over the course of a clinical
trial and see if it changes.
>> [snorts]
>> And so these data highlight the
importance of capturing those symptoms.
We capture them in a quantifiable way
through those surveys, the Bailey data,
Vineland data, all of these things, but
we also get to have qualitative data
from our caregivers that are
participating in the trial. So we do
qualitative interviews at study entry
and periodically throughout our studies
with a subset of um participants, subset
of caregivers, and they tell us what all
of this stuff means. What is it like to
be in the trial? What is it like to live
um with your loved one that has Angelmen
syndrome? What is it like uh when you
say behavior problem? What does that
mean? And then we can link that data
with our quantitative data and give it
some more color and meaning.
But one of the ways we also like to look
at our data is with the multi-dommain
responder index. So again, we've got a
cool poster that I'll flag and you can
go talk to us about it. Um, and we
learned from the PFGD, excuse me,
[clears throat]
we learned from the PFTD that sleep and
behavior are also super important in
addition to cognition and communication
and seizures and all of the other things
you face. And so we got to collaborate
with FAST and and were asked to look at
our behavior data and it was a really
cool opportunity to say look our
behavior data is capturing the symptoms
of hyperactivity, non-compliance,
impulsivity that are really challenging
in the home and we see it changing in
response to GTX 102. So now we know that
we've got some pieces that we get to go
after look at even more depth in our
phase three study. But that's just one
piece of the puzzle, right? And so the
way that we like to look at our data is
in all of the symptoms at one time and
see how things change. And that's
because a single primary efficacy
endpoint may not be good enough to
measure all of the ways these drugs can
impact patients.
The way that drugs are typically
designed in clinical trials to be tested
is you pick one symptom that's linked
with one s uh one uh clinical outcome
assessment and you need to see change in
that one particular measure. That means
that everybody that enters the trial
probably needs to have that symptom. For
some disorders, that may be okay. For
some symptoms, that may be okay. But
what if you're missing other potential
benefits?
or what if you're having to exclude
participants who could benefit in other
ways and they're not getting to be in
that trial and we don't get to learn
about their experience too in other
symptoms.
We also know that many drugs impact
patients differently. One drug may treat
two different symptoms and isn't it
important to know about that and be able
to, you know, put significant weight
behind that? And for that matter, we've
heard all the exciting stuff about the
ASOS, the crispers, the gene therapies
this morning. These are all targeting
the underlying symptom or the underlying
cause of Angelmen syndrome and we know
that your kids are not all the same.
Yes, there's a group of symptoms that
we're expecting to see, but we don't see
every single symptom in every single
person in the exact same way. So, the
multi-dommain responder index or the
MDRI is one of our solutions to be able
to capture and assess this change across
multiple symptoms using one analytical
tool. So, what is it? It's a statistical
analytical tool. It's a methodology that
we apply to our data. So, we assign
clinical domains that are meaningful
based on the patient population we're
studying and then we assign um clinical
thresholds to those and see what our
responder analysis looks like. We'll go
into that in a little more detail in a
second.
If you've heard of composite endpoints,
that is another way to pull in multiple
clinical endpoints into one analytical
tool, but it's a little bit different.
In the MDRI, each of the domains is
independent. We're measuring it
individually. And in this case, they're
all symptoms of Angelman syndrome, but
for a composite endpoint, you typically
need it to be a single symptom that
you're measuring in different ways. And
all of those outcome measures are
pointing to that one symptom. So
different ways to measure one versus
different symptoms being measured at the
same time.
So we do it by identifying four to six
different clinically important domains.
They need to be important and
independent. Then we assign a clinical
endpoint to each of those domains or
each of those symptoms a way to measure
for change. Then we define the minimal
excuse me the meaningful score
difference. Uh it used to be called a
minimal important difference. There's
been a lot of different terms for this.
What it's essentially saying is a
clinical threshold.
Beyond this score is good. Below or
beyond this score in that direction is
bad. Um so if you meet or surpass the
clinically meaningful threshold in the
direction of improvement for the scale
because remember some scales go up and
some scales go down for positive or
negative. If you meet or surpass in the
direction of improvement that means that
we give you a green box and you're a
plus one and we say you had improvement.
meet or surpass in the direction of
worsening. We give it a pink box, you
get a minus one point and we say that
was a case that worsened.
If it falls somewhere in the middle in
the gray zone, we say that's an unclear
treatment effect. We leave the box white
and we give it a score of zero. You
tally up the scores for each
participant. So in this hypothetical uh
dummy data here, you've got two domains
that improve, one domain that worsened,
two domains that were unclear, you get a
net response of plus one. Then we apply
statistical methodologies to that,
statistical testing to the group and
understand um if we have statistically
significant changes or not. So how did
we build an MDRI for Angelman syndrome?
We started with our domains. Again, we
learned these from you. The uh disease
concept studies, the natural history
studies tell us that these are the
symptoms that don't have good clinical
um uh medical medical treatment options
right now. We assigned a clinical
endpoint to each of these domains. So
based on our one phase one two data,
we're able to learn, okay, we can
measure sleep in a bunch of different
ways, but which one is the best? which
one do we think is capturing what the
patient community tells us is important
and which one is also responding to
treatment. So we see change scores over
time. And so that's how we picked each
of these endpoints was based on our
phase one two data. Then we get to
define the um MSDS. So the meaningful
score difference for each of these. And
again we use our phase one two data to
help us understand um what is the
threshold that we need to say if you're
beyond this score it's an improvement.
If you're beyond this score it's a
worsening. So let's walk through a
couple of examples and then I'll show
you the entire um table.
So first a relatively simple one. So we
have participant one here. They got
better in every single one of these
domains. So they met or surpassed in the
direction of clinical improvement on
each domain. That means we color the box
green and we give it a plus one. So they
have a total net response score of plus
five. That's the max score we could get
on this
subject two which is technic subject 11.
our second example. Um, so this one's a
little bit more complicated. We've got
three domains that improve, two that
stayed essentially the same, had an
unclear treatment effect, so they get a
net response of plus three.
The last one, so um, this one has two
domains that worsened this time. So we
color those boxes pink, so they're a
minus one point. Two boxes are green,
that means they surpassed the threshold
in the improvement direction. So they
get plus one for each of those. and they
had one that was an unclear treatment
effect. Add those all up and you get a
net score of zero. Okay, so that's how
we walk through each participant.
Now, the whole big data. So, this is all
of our participants from cohorts A and
B. So, just two of our groups that were
in our phase one two study. We're
assessing them at baseline and at day
338, which is approximately one year
into treatment. And we see how did their
score change over the course of that one
year. Did the score meet or surpass the
direction the score differential for the
direction in improvement or for
worsening? Um, and so if it's improved,
we get a green box, worsened, pink box,
no change, white box. Add them all up
for each participant and then you get
that final column there, which is the
total net response.
And you can see the total net responses
in green. tally up to 22 out of 28 of
these kids, which is 79% of kids with at
least one domain that has a net
responsive clinical improvement. You can
see that some kids improve in some
places, don't change in some places, and
even worsen in some places. Um, but it
gives you a sense that everybody's
responding in different ways, and we get
to look at that data in this kind of
bird's eye view of the totality all at
one time. Now, of course, we look at
each of these individually as well um in
the more traditional way of looking at
our line graphs and our um bar graphs
that we show you all the time, but we
think that this is a really nice
snapshot that gives you a sense that a
lot of kids are improving.
Okay, so lesson two, uh patient focused
study design. Um I think one of our core
tenants at Ultragenics is that we do
patient focused drug development. We get
your input all all along the way and in
fact you have given us a lot of feedback
and input over time. So we have more
formal less formal interactions with you
and we appreciate that feedback always.
We do our best to hear you to listen and
to make changes to the best of our
abilities. [snorts] Um so thank you for
the feedback and um know that we'll
continue to keep asking.
Um, one of the ways that I'd like to
highlight that we did um, receive
feedback and made some changes um, was
how we thought about our phase three
study. So to walk you through a little
bit, how do you design a controlled
clinical study? Traditional ways of
placeboc controlled um, study. So you
have a placebo group that receives a
medicine that is essentially like a fake
medicine. It's it's a medicine that
looks and is administered and given
exactly like the treatment drug with
active treatment. But the placebo
doesn't have any active ingredients in
it. Um
in rare disease it's tricky though. We
have to be creative, right? We have
small patient populations. Um your kids
are also vulnerable and we need to
protect them and think about what do we
absolutely need to do um to answer our
scientific questions.
We also had feedback from the EMA that
came from those of you in the audience
who are our European colleagues and
families. Um, you got to give some
feedback to the EMA and they summarize
that in a survey and we heard you loud
and clear that sham controlled was
preferred. So what's a sham study?
So a sham control means that you don't
actually give any medicine or fake
medicine. it means you do a procedure
and you make it look like you're giving
the medicine without that final step of
administering anything.
So that's the study design that we
carried into Aspire, our phase three
clinical study um which of course we got
feedback from you on. So our phase three
study Aspire is our global study. We got
to enroll 129 kids and kudos to you in
the audience and all of our
investigators that worked with us on
this. We enrolled this study very
quickly um and by July this summer we
were completed for enrollment and now
that data just gets to cook like a sule.
We're not touching it until it's ready
to be looked at. And so um it's studying
the same population that we studied in
our phase one two study uh patients four
to 17 deletion genotype and we're
looking at the same similar outcome
measures that we looked at there.
It's a sham control design again, but it
is double blind. So that means that
everybody goes through a screening and
randomization period and then you're
randomly assigned one to one, so a 50-50
chance to either get treatment in the
double blind period or to go into that
sham control uh where you are getting a
sham procedure completed at every visit.
And for some of those visits, we're
doing a full lumbar puncture to pull off
a little bit of spinal fluid so we can
do some analyses, understand some more
safety profiles, and also continue to
work on biomarkers because they're so
important.
So the first year of the study is double
blind. That means that most of the study
site uh a group at the study site are
blinded and don't know whether the
participant is getting drug or is
getting the sham. The caregivers don't
know, the participants don't know. There
are some study site staff that do have
to know because right it something
different happens in the procedure room
for each of these kids. And so they need
to know if they're giving drug or if
they're doing the sham.
But in the open label period in year
two, everybody receives drug. So the uh
treatment period, the treatment arm gets
to just continue receiving their drug in
the maintenance period. the sham control
arm will transition over to drug um in
that open label year and go through the
same dosing regimen as um all of the
other participants have.
Okay, lesson three, inclusion of all
genotypes is important. Uh we've heard
you multiple times. We also agree GTX
102 was designed to treat Angelman
syndrome. It was designed to restore
UB3A production regardless of the
underlying genotype, regardless of age.
And so we need to look at the safety and
efficacy in these other populations that
we haven't had the opportunity to study
yet.
So as a broad overview of clinical
trials and the phases and how they kind
of work, this isn't meant to be a linear
timeline, but you march through
typically phase one, phase two, and
phase three. And they each have
different goals. So your phase one and
phase two studies are your safety
studies. In rare disease, we always look
at efficacy, too, but they're your
safety studies. that study enrolled or
completed enrollment uh quite some time
ago at this point and so those kids are
continuing to receive drug in our uh
long-term extension study. Um and we get
to continue to learn about the long-term
effects of GTX 102.
Phase three studies are your pivotal,
your controlled studies that are really
meant to truly assess benefit risk. Is
it working and is it safe? And you
typically control them through that
blinding mechanism like we just talked
about. Enrollment completed for this
study over the summer. We're just
waiting for the data now, but we're here
now. So, phase two studies, again, we
get to do safety studies. Remember, we
needed to look at the safety and
efficacy in our other populations. And
so, this study actually opened for
enrollment in October. And we're really
excited. If you want more information,
thank you.
Um,
thank you. We're super excited. We're
very proud of the team. Appreciative
again to the investigators who go on
this journey with us and go really fast.
Um, we are so excited to have this study
going and can't wait to see what this
data looks like.
So, looking at them one more time, phase
one, two study was our safety study. It
was the initial study, kids ages 4 to
17, deletion genotype really helped us
design the rest of the studies going
forward. Our long-term extension is
where we get to see that long-term
benefit, the long-term safety profile
when kids are on maintenance uh,
therapy. And this is the study where
kids will always land um from their
parent study. So from the initial study
they enroll in. Phase three is the
Aspire study. It's our pivotal
well-controlled study um and it finished
enrollment this summer. And Aurora is
our phase two study look at safety and
efficacy in um the additional
populations we haven't gotten to study
yet. And all of this information can be
found in much greater detail at ct.gov.
Um, so I encourage everybody to get
familiar with that website if you
haven't already and just try to digest
the government website as best you can.
Um, so what is Aurora?
It is a global study. We're enrolling
approximately 60 children and adults and
it's going to be a phase 2 basket design
study. That means that we get to include
different subgroups and study them under
one clinical protocol. We're looking at
all the same kinds of symptoms, but it
may be slightly different to look at
behavior in adults versus behavior in
younger kids. And so we've thought
through all of those details and tried
to pick the right outcome measures to
measure these symptoms in each of these
populations.
So group A is going to be deletion
genotype and these kids will be ages one
to three.
Uh, group B is going to be our UPD and
ICD kits, and they're going to be the
same ages, 4 to 17, as our other study
populations.
Group C is our adult group. And we're
kind of being more flexible with this
group and accepting any genotype into
it. And then group D is our mutation
type um genotype group. And those again
are 4 to 17 years old.
And so our groups A, B, and C are going
to do a straight open label one-year
study design. So it is open label,
meaning everybody's on drug and
everybody knows everybody's on drug. You
go through your screening and
randomization and then they get treated.
We assess safety. We assess um efficacy
endpoints along the way and then
eventually they get to roll in the
long-term extension study. and then
group D because we have learned that
there can be a little bit more
variability in the um developmental
severity of this group. We understand
that neurodedevelopmental disabilities
is ubiquitous. Everybody with Angelman
syndrome has significant u
neurodedevelopmental disability. But
this group is the group that has just a
slightly bigger variation in that level
of severity between individuals. So for
that reason, we've included a no
treatment control period in this study.
So what will happen is kids will uh
either for excuse me, every two kids
that go into the treatment open label
one-year arm, one child will go into
that no treatment control period and
then start treatment after about six
months. So it's a 2:1 randomization.
It's still open label. It's still not
blinded. It's still not sham. It's not
placebo. Everybody will get treatment.
We're just asking for a six-month run-in
period for one-third of these kids so
that we have two different time points
before treatment. That helps us
understand a little bit better what they
looked like before treatment and then we
can see what they look like after
treatment and we can also still compare
them to those that go straight into
treatment. So, it just gives us even a
little bit more information. I
understand it's a bummer to be in a no
treatment control period for six months.
Um, but it really will help us answer
the question scientifically, I think, in
a more rigorous way. And as I mentioned,
everybody gets to roll into that
long-term extension study should they
choose to continue on the journey with
us. Um, so drug remains available to
patients um after their participation in
Aurora.
So, how can you get more information?
Um, we have a team out here, of course.
Um, and we also have a team that you can
email directly. um they're able to take
your information, help connect you to
clinical trial sites that are close to
you, help you answer some questions even
before you get to the site, help you
think through what questions might be
good to ask. But as Allison mentioned
earlier, please talk to your doctors,
talk to your families, talk to other
families and each other here to
understand what it's like to be in a
clinical trial and decide if these are
um the decisions you want to make for
you and your family. So um I will final
uh end here. Um, our phase one two trial
showed promising uh benefit risk
profile, meaning we get to continue to
study. Our global phase three Aspire
trial completed enrollment this summer
and we get to look at that data when
it's ready. Um, all of our participants
uh continue to receive drug through a
long-term extension study and we get to
understand those long-term impacts um
from safety and efficacy both.
And then Aurora has opened. We're super
excited. Um, and you can get more
information on that study at ct.gov.
And then finally, the MDRI we think is a
powerful tool. So, one last plug for it.
Uh, we think we can measure meaningful
improvement across multiple domains at
one time. And we think that's a really
nice way to look at efficacy data in a
complex disorder like Angelman syndrome.
So, thank you so much.
[snorts]
incredible and thank you for all of that
and you know that's a whirlwind of an
unbelievable amount of work over the
last five years and so it's amazing
where we are and how far we've come and
I just want to acknowledge to the
community that the day the press release
came out that the first patient was
dosed in Aurora I got an email from Amal
Khakis that said I told you we would
keep our promise and That's because we
made them promise, as we have to all
sponsors, that they would include all
ages and all genotypes. And they did.