The next speaker is uh Dr. Candace Jung.
She's coming to us from Ionis
Pharmaceuticals and she's going to be
updating us on the development program
for Angelman Syndrome. Candace.
Hi everyone. I'm Candace Jung and I'm
the program lead for ion 582 at Ionis.
Uh this is my first year at FAST. So I'm
very grateful to be here to listen and
to learn from you and to hear about all
the exciting advances in Angelmen
Syndrome research. It's really a great
time to be part of the community.
So today I'll provide you an update on
our program but a couple of just brief
disclosures. As I mentioned, I'm an
employee of Ionis and today I'll prevent
some I'll present some in information on
the ION 582 program and ion 582 is an
investigational medicine. So it's not
approved by FDA or any regulatory body.
And so today the information I'll show
is just for educational purposes.
But before I dive in, I first want to
thank all of you. So thank you to the
community, the researchers, the
scientists, the clinicians, the families
especially. We really appreciate
everything you've done to make all of
this possible. We wouldn't be here
without you. So, thank you to all of you
in the community and the especially the
Halos and the Reveal participants, their
families, and their caregivers. And of
course, all the organizations listed
here. Again, we couldn't do this without
you.
So, some of you may already be familiar
with Ionis, but those that aren't, uh,
we were founded about 35 years ago, and
we were focused on developing RNA
targeted medicines. We really have a
passion for scientific innovation that
will help us develop potential medicines
for challenging illnesses. Um and so we
have about 1100 over 1100 employees now
some of which have been here the entire
35 years including our CEO
and we're taking this deep experience
and expertise in developing RNA targeted
medicines and applying them to
neurology. And so as you can see here we
have three approved medicines in
neurology. So, SpinRazza, Kelsadi and
Wayua. And we have multiple programs in
development now. So, all of those you
see here listed below are for uh
neurological indications and they are
currently in clinical trials which is
really really exciting.
And so throughout the development of ION
582, collaboration with the community
has been key to advancing our Angelman
syndrome research. And the common thread
throughout all of this is listening and
learning from families starting with
preclinical when we wanted to better
understand the illness. So we started
research collaborations. We looked to
understand the natural history and
supported those studies and then going
on to early clinical development where
we started participating in consorcia
continued to participate in the
conferences and that really helped us
inform our clinical trial design and now
that we're here in late development that
collaboration continues with community
advisor meetings also participating in
the community advisor boards the global
angelman syndrome one and again
throughout all of this listening and
learning from you to really inform how
we design our trials and conduct conduct
our trials.
We took this same rigorous and
collaborative approach to developing ion
582 and that started with the
breakthrough of identifying the
biological target. So Ionis collaborated
with a researcher specifically Dr.
Boddet to identify the mechanism to
upregulate UB3A
um using an ASO and from there we
continued to develop a deep
understanding of the target biology. So
collaborating with doctors and experts
in Angelman syndrome biology and UB3A to
understand the target. Next came proof
of concept in disease models where we
continue continued to collaborate with
researchers Dr. Boddet again to show
that an ASO provides benefit in a
pre-clinical models of Angelman
syndrome. And then we leveraged our 30
plus years of experience in developing
RNA targeted medicines to screen
candidates and identify ion 582 as our
lead candidate for testing and clinical
trials.
And throughout this, we continue to
develop an deep understanding of the
syndrome. We're working closely with the
community to understand their disease
and to develop markers to monitor the
trajectory of the disease that will help
us in clinical trials, which is where we
are today, evaluating ion 582 in our
phase 3 reveal study.
So, just a bit more about ion 582 before
I get into uh the program update and
some of the data I'll share with you
today. Uh you've already heard a lot
about this but just just briefly you
know on the left you see a cartoon of
Angelman syndrome neuron and in pink you
have the UB3A gene from mom which is uh
in Angelmen syndrome as you all know
loss of the maternal UB3A gene um is
present so it's either through dilation
or mutation and in all people the
paternal al is silenced and that's by
the anti-sense transcript and ion 582 is
designed to specifically target that
anti-sense transcript so that it can be
unsilenced and it can produce a UB3A
protein.
And so before I get into the the data
and some updates on our trials, I just
wanted a couple reminders that Halos,
that's our phase one two study. It is a
small open label clinical trial. It was
not designed to establish the safety or
efficacy of ion 582 as a treatment for
Angelman syndrome. But the result
results are overall very encouraging and
they serve as the basis for our phase
three uh trial which is known as reveal
which is ongoing now. and that will
determine the safety and efficacy of ion
582. And so we'll present some initial
results from halos only today. That's
the phase one two study and some newer
data from our long long-term extension.
So this is a brief overview of our uh uh
clinical trials that are currently
ongoing for ion 582. So on the left you
have halos which is our phase one two
global open label study. It was designed
to evaluate the safety and tolerability
of ion 52 and also some exploratory
measures of clinical efficacy. The trial
includes participants with deletion or
mutation genotypes and so we have 55
participants in the study aged 2 to 50
years old. The multiple ascending dose
portion of the study is complete. We
evaluated three doses of ion 5a2. So 20
40 and 80 milligrams and the long-term
extension is ongoing. So, we have uh the
participants that have completed the MAD
are eligible and they'll receive either
40 milligrams or 80 milligrams of ion
582 for up to an additional four years.
And we're excited to say that we started
uh enrolling in uh participants under
the age of two this year. So, we amended
the protocol to add that and we dosed
our first under two-year-old participant
in September, which is very exciting.
Very happy to hear that, too.
And so now I'll move on to reveal. That
is our phase three global placeboc
controlled study and it's designed to
demonstrate the safety and efficacy of
ion 582 in children and adults with
Angelman syndrome. So this trial also
includes participants with deletion or
mutation genotypes and they are also
aged 2 to 50 years old. Our primary
objective for the study is to evaluate
if ion 582 helps participants improve
expressive communication. So that's use
the use of sounds, gestures and and ways
to communicate using the Bailey 4
assessment.
We dosed our first participant in June
which is very exciting and the study is
now approved in the US, Canada, UK,
Japan, South Korea, Singapore and
Australia.
At the time of finalizing these slides
we which was about a week ago we had
nine sites activated in the US and now
I'm excited to say that we have an
additional four sites activated. one in
the US, one in the UK, one in Canada,
and one in Australia. So things are
moving along really nicely and we're
excited to now have some global sites
involved and we'll continue to open more
sites as the throughout the end of the
year and globally.
So I'll give you a brief update on our
Halos phase one two study like where we
are today with it. And so, as I
mentioned, the participants in ages 2 to
55, they we've completed enrollment
there. They've completed the MAD
portion. 98% transitioned over to the
long-term extension where all
participants are receiving ion 582 every
12 weeks. And the long-term extension
will last for about four years. And on
average, participants have now received
ION 582 for about two years and for some
up to three years. So, now we're able to
get that long-term data to characterize
ION 582.
And as I noted, we have started
enrolling participants under the age of
two. So that those cohorts are open for
enrollment. Participants that are
included in the study will have either a
deletion or mutation of UB3A.
And all will receive it. It is open
label. So all participants will receive
ion 582 every 12 weeks. And they'll
receive it for about approximately four
years. And there'll be about up to 15
participants in this age group. As I
mentioned, we do our first part
participant in September. and we
currently are enrolling at sites in the
US, EU, and Israel.
So, I'd like to share a little data on
the Bailey for expressive communication
from our Halo study, but before I do
that, I just wanted to briefly uh talk
about the Bailey, and I know you've all
heard a bit about it. This uh over the
past few days, there's been some great
presentations on it, but so just
briefly, the Bailey forum measures a few
different domains. It looks at language
and communication through expressive
communication and receptive
communication. It also looks at
cognitive function, so learning, memory,
and concept formation. And it also
assesses motor function, so fine motor,
so reaching, object manipulation, and
grasping. And also gross motor, so
locomotion and coordination and balance.
So I'll talk a little bit more about
expressive communication because I'll
show you some data on that.
And so what does it evaluate? It
evaluates how your child communicates
with others through sounds, gestures,
words, and other ways of expressing
themselves. Uh the assessment is
performed in the clinic and the
clinician will talk or play with your
child to see how how they respond. And
they'll observe how your child uses
gestures or vocalizations to get
attention or show interest. And it'll
look for signs that your child
understands how communication works,
even if spoken words aren't used yet.
And so this is our uh our data from the
long-term extension portion of our study
from our Halos phase one two study. And
this is looking at expressive
communication on the Bailey 4. And what
we're seeing is continued improvement in
expressive communication through 18
months across all ages and all
genotypes. So what the chart is showing
you is uh participants that have been
treated with ion 582 and that's the pink
line. And then it's also showing
patients that have partic participated
in a natural history study. So this is
the what you would expect that sort of
the typical uh developing trajectory for
expressive communication in individuals
living with Angelman syndrome. On the
y-axis you're seeing u the change the
mean change from baseline in expressive
communication on the GSV score. That's
the growth scale value. And that's a
score that allows clinicians to look at
how your child is is developing over
over time. how their their communication
skills are changing over time in this
case. And what we see are improvements
on the Bailey for measure of expressive
communication at both 40 milligrams and
80 milligrams. So those doses are pulled
here in that pink line. All these
individual participants received either
40 or 80 that exceed the natural
history. So that's very encouraging and
um great support for continuing our our
exploration in our phase three study.
I'll also show you some EEG data that
was presented earlier this week at the
Abomb uh translational research meeting
by my colleague Yonis Papus. But first,
I'll get into just a little bit on what
an EEG is. I again you've heard about
this this weekend too and a lot of you
probably are probably already familiar
with it. But it's a non-invasive
procedure where 20 electrodes with small
metal discs are secured to the scalp
while the individual is awake and
there's no medical no medical risks
associated with the procedure.
It detects electrical activity from the
brain. So the brain cells produce small
electrical charges and those can be
detected at the level of the scalp and
they so they produce waves of electrical
activity as you can see there
and it's used to evaluate brain
function. So, EEG data that was
collected in the Halos phase one two
study provides more information about
brain wave patterns in the individuals
with Angelman syndrome in the study
and research has shown that EEGs are
abnormal in Angelmen syndrome. So, on on
the left you see what you would
typically see in a neurotypical
individual uh on an EEG when they're
awake and then on the right is what you
see uh from an Angelman syndrome uh
participant. Oops, sorry.
And so you see more activity in this
case you're seeing more activity um and
delta waves or delta activity is also
called delta power and so and delta
power has been shown to correlate with
cognitive function in angelman syndrome
it so therefore it may serve as a
biioarker for treatment response in
clinical trials
and what we're seeing is that ion 582
demonstrates delta suppression at 40 and
80 milligrams levels and so the chart on
the left what that's showing you is the
green line is the 20 milligram dose. So
this is during the multiple sending dose
portion, the first part of our study,
the first six months. And then in blue,
you're seeing participants that were
treated with either 40 or 80 milligrams.
And on the y-axis, you have the EEG
delta power change from baseline. And
then you have time on the x-axis. And
what we're seeing is really the key
takeaways are that we're seeing robust
delta power suppression. So lowering of
that delta activity at month six. And
we're seeing similar reductions for both
the 40 and the 80 milligram groups. Um
but we don't see any effect at the 20
milligram which uh that we did not take
that dose forward into our long-term
extension.
So in conclusion from with where we are
today with halos uh so participants have
received on average two years of
treatment with ion 582 and up to three.
So, we're getting that nice long-term
data to be able to characterize ion 582
safety and potential efficacy.
We're seeing a similar reduction in EEG
delta power at 40 milligrams and 80
milligrams of ion 582. And the
expressive communication data indicate
improvement through 18 months in both
children and adults receiving 40
milligrams or 80 milligrams of ion 582.
And we plan to publish our halos
18-month data next year.
So now I'll move on to reveal which is
our global phase three trial for
children and adults with Angelman
syndrome.
So trial participants uh will be
included if they have a mutation or a
deletion of UB3A
and it will include similar to the halo
study children and adults ages 2 to 50.
It is a double blind placeboc controlled
study and participants will receive a
dose every three months.
And our trial objectives are here and
the and the primary objective is to
evaluate the effect of ion 52 on
expressive communication through using
the Bailey 4. And importantly, we've
included other objectives as well
because we want to look at the totality
of the evidence to fully characterize
how ion 582 may improve the lives of
individuals living with Angelman
syndrome and their families. So we're
also looking at cognition, so learning
and memory. uh receptive communication,
that's the ability to understand others,
overall disease severity, sleep
problems, motor function, as well as
daily daily living skills. And so the
study team and the investigator at the
site will closely monitor safety, but we
also do have an independent uh board of
physicians that will monitor safety as
well. The trial is currently enrolling.
It is a global study and as I mentioned
a week ago, we had nine sites in the US.
Now we have 10 also with one in
Australia, the UK and Canada. And so
we'll continue to activate activate
sites around the world and as they get
are getting close to activation or
activated, we will post those sites on
clinical trials.gov so you can see if
there's a trial site near you. The trial
will last about three and a half years.
So there are two parts of the trial. The
first part is the double blind placeboc
controlled treatment period. And so
participants will receive ion 582 or
placebo. And then there's a two-year
long-term extension where everyone
receives ION 582.
And you know, the feedback that we've
received from you, from the community,
from the families, that's really what's
guided us and how we've selected
endpoints in our clinical trial. And I
think this is really well demonstrated
by the ASF survey from the Angelman
Syndrome uh externally led PFDD meeting
in in April. And there the top three
symptom domains having the most impact
on individuals was surveyed. And what
came out is that communication really
matters to families and living with
Angelmen syndrome. And so that is our
primary we've chosen expressive
communication as our primary endpoint.
But again importantly we have several
secondary endpoints that are assessing
many of these symptom domains here
because we really recognize that it is
the totality of the evidence. We want to
understand how ion 582 may help
individuals living with Angelmen
syndrome across multiple domains so that
we can hopefully provide a treatment
that really improves their lives and the
lives of families.
So what will participation in reveal
look like? It starts with the screening
period. Um so you heard a little bit
about this earlier and uh where the
eligibility criteria will be assessed
and then if the participant is eligible
then they'll move into the double blind
treatment control double blind placebo
control treatment period and so during
this time there will be nine in-person
clinic visits uh during screening and
the double blind treatment period and
five doses of ion 582 or placebo and the
little checklists you see there are when
the assessments will be performed. So
they're performed about every six
months. From there, participants will
seamlessly transition to the long-term
extension where all participants will
receive ion 582 for another four years.
And this is followed by a follow-up
period of about eight months. So during
the long-term extension and the
follow-up period, there are 14 in-person
clinic visits and participants will
receive nine doses of ion 582.
And we're very excited today today that
we can announce that we'll be starting a
phase three study in individuals with
Angelmen syndrome and genetic diagnosis
of uniparental dyme or imprinting
defect. So UPD or ID and we're planning
to start that study next year. So very
excited
and uh this this will be known as the
champion study and we'll plan to include
children and adults with UPD or ID and
again we're planning to start the study
next year. So very happy to share that
today.
So in summary, uh our reveal, our
pivotal phase three study is ongoing. It
is on track to complete enrollment next
year. So very excited about that. Our
open label halos phase one two study is
also ongoing. So we're continuing to
generate that long-term data. And also
we're currently enrolling participants
under the age of two as well. And that's
at sites in the US, EU, and Israel. And
as I just mentioned, we're initiating
the UPD ID study next year. And we're
advancing this study with input from
fast ASF, the hope and action survey and
and also a caregiver advisory board so
we can get your input into how we design
and conduct our trial because it's very
important to us. So thank you again for
the opportunity to be here today.
Yay. You heard us loud and clear. So
this is why these meetings matter
because the sponsors hear your voice and
we all have been saying for years that
we need to include all genotypes and
here we are. So this is very very
exciting for our community.