So, our last um speaker is uh Shady
Sedhon from Ro who's joining us
virtually. Unfortunately, he couldn't
make it in person and he's going to be
giving us an update on the phase one two
study looking at a logo and Angelman
syndrome.
>> Can you hear me? Okay.
>> Yes.
>> Perfect. Great. Thank you very much,
Alison. It's it's really unfortunate
that I was not able to to be with the
community this year. I used to to come
every year uh in the last five years. So
u I really miss you all. Um
um and thank you for inviting me to to
share updates about the uh Angelman uh
syndrome study um Alderbran uh study. Um
so as you all know that next slide
please.
So this is me Shetty Sedum uh patient
partnership leader in um Enrush.
Next slide please.
Um and this is my disclaimer for today.
Um, alabet is uh an investigational
therapy and the information which I'm
sharing with you today is for uh
scientific exchange and not for
permission purposes. And next slide
please.
So as you all know that lack of UB3A
expressed from chromosome 15Q causes
Angelman syndrome. And um shown here in
the uh right is a graphical
representation of the genes on
chromosome 15Q uh for typical inid
individuals in comparison to deletion
patient and mutation patients. You can
see from this that deletion angelman
syndrome has more than 10 additional
genes deleted in addition to the UB3
and that of course um has um an effect
and this uh presented in the natural
history study data um in Angelmen
syndrome and it is clear uh that
deletion angelman syndrome patients are
presented with uh more impaired clinical
uh phenotype. Uh if you look at the
bottom right uh the graph here uh we can
see this like more clearly from the bail
data uh measure measuring cognition. You
can see that deletion engine syndrome
patient has more severely impacted uh
cog cognition and in in addition to to
the this um to the clinical severity
observed in deletion angelman syndrome
patient they also present clinically
with a consistent decrease in the EEG
beta band power
and uh that's of of course in addition
to the delta
band increase seen in all Angelman
syndrome patients. Um and why is that?
If we look at the deleted genes, we see
that um it includes the GABA uh genes,
GABA B3, GABA A5, GABA A3 and the
product of these genes form what's
called GABA alpha 5 subunit receptor.
And this receptor is very important. Um
it has been postulated that uh these
three deleted genes contribute to the
more severe clinical presentation in
deletion angel man syndrome patient and
that
restoring the GABA function could have a
therapeutic benefit for uh the deletion
angelman syndrome patients.
Next slide please.
Yeah, here you see on on the right um uh
schemically the product of the three
GABA gene I mentioned in the uh just
previous slide. They formed together
what is called the GABA alpha 5 receptor
and the GABA alpha 5 binds to a
neurotransmitter called GABA. GABA is
one of the most important
neurotransmitters or messengers in the
brain
and neurotransmitters like GABA can only
work when they bind to their specific
receptor. So there if there is any
dysfunction around the neurotransmitter
or its receptor uh that can cause
imbalance in the brain and with the
deleted GABA
uh we have less GABA alpha 5 receptor.
So this could be uh uh um of course
represented in the uh uh data uh and
differentiate between deletion engine
and uh mutation.
Um
here comes the alugabet the
investigation medicine which we are
investigating in the alderbrron study.
Alugabet
um is a GABA alpha 5 positive uh
electric modulator. It binds to the GABA
alpha 5 receptor and can it hence um can
enhance its function.
Um alabet is an oral therapy and it's uh
it's once daily and it was investigated
as once daily medicine and it has been
before investigated in enginemen
patients. It was um investigated in
healthy volunteers and also in phase two
clinical trial in adult and adolescence
uh with autism spectrum disorders. Um,
Alugabet um has shown acceptable uh
safety and tolerability profile uh to
date and currently as I just mentioned
is investigated in a study called Albron
for delician angelman uh syndrome uh
patients.
Uh next slide please.
So um at the branch study which is a
phase two study what we would like to
understand from this study first safety
and yes it was investigated before in
healthy volunteers and in um autism
spectrum patient but it is also
important to understand um its safety on
deletion angelman uh patients its safety
and tolerability permacinetics and this
This this means what does the body do to
to alugabet and what is the uh dose
required? Um as we just mentioned the
EEG beta band and the GABA. It is also
important to investigate
if
um alabet will enhance the gaba receptor
and will have impact on the uh EEG
specifically uh the beta band power and
we also um check some exploratory
clinical effects.
Next slide please.
So um albron which is an open label
study um open label means no placebo all
the patients receive u uh uh the
investigational therapy alapet is uh
tested in um uh children and
adolesccents.
So far
uh 48 uh male and female uh individuals
with um deletion engine patients were
recruited uh and the study
five to 17 years old. Um um it's
actually um currently in 20 sites in six
countries and I'm super happy and proud
to to say that this study is fully um
enrolled and I would like to use this
opportunity
um to express our deep appreciation to
the enginemen community
the the efforts the commitment to to
participate in in clinical trials. Um we
understand the significant dedication
and the personal investment the families
make and we are incredibly grateful uh
uh for the partnership with the uh
families with the patient organization
with F with ASF with ASA and all the
patient organizations across that loop.
We thank you really uh a lot. Uh next
slide please.
Um next
um next next until all appear.
So in conclusion, the alderrron study um
will enable us to explore uh the role of
the deletion GABA uh genes in deletion
angelmen syndrome and whether restoring
the GABA uh functioning with alugabet
could uh have a therapeutic benefit and
help uh angelman syndrome patients. Um
th this study is uh fully recruited and
we expect the trial to be completed by
Q2 Q3 next year and we plan to share the
results as soon as uh um we get there.
So uh stay tuned. We will uh share the
results with you as soon as possible. Uh
next slide. Yeah. Thank you.
Thank you so much Shady and
unfortunately we don't have enough time
for questions but I do want to just
acknowledge the fact that that was a
hard study to enroll due to the fact
that a lot of patients with deletion
were also on benzoazipines for seizure
control and that was one of the
exclusion criterias at the forefront. So
that was a hard study to enroll and
congratulations to the community for
pushing through and getting it done. And
I'd also like to say that I think the
benefit of a drug like that could
actually be profoundly different in the
face of a gene replacement therapy or an
ASO in which you're replacing both the
GABA genes and UB3A. So, I I'm very
excited to see what combination therapy
might look like, and hopefully companies
are thinking about